docs/ensnode.io/src/content/docs/ensrainbow/usage/api.mdx, before:

---
title: ENSRainbow API
description: Complete HTTP API reference for ENSRainbow label healing service.
sidebar:
  label: API
  order: 2
---

## Endpoint Summary

| Endpoint | Purpose | Key Response Types |
|----------|---------|--------------------|
| `GET /health` | Liveness probe for orchestration | `{ status: "ok" }` |
| `GET /v1/heal/{labelhash}` | Heal a single labelhash | `HealSuccess`, `HealError` |
| `GET /v1/labels/count` | Current healable label count | `CountSuccess`, `CountServerError` |
| `GET /v1/version` | Server & database schema info plus label set details | `VersionInfo` |

:::tip[Deterministic Results]
Pin `labelSetVersion` in your client if you need **deterministic results** across time. See the [Label Sets & Versioning guide](/ensrainbow/concepts/label-sets-and-versioning/) for details.
:::

## Health Check

```bash
curl http://localhost:3223/health
```

Response: `{"status":"ok"}`

## Heal Label

### Basic Usage

```bash
curl http://localhost:3223/v1/heal/0x[labelHash]
```

Example:

```bash
curl http://localhost:3223/v1/heal/0xaf2caa1c2ca1d027f1ac823b529d0a67cd144264b2789fa2ea4d63a67c7103cc
```

Response:

```json
{
  "status": "success",
  "label": "vitalik"
}
```

### Advanced Usage with Query Parameters

You can optionally specify `label_set_id` and `label_set_version` query parameters for additional validation:

```bash
curl "http://localhost:3223/v1/heal/0xaf2caa1c2ca1d027f1ac823b529d0a67cd144264b2789fa2ea4d63a67c7103cc?label_set_id=subgraph&label_set_version=0"
```

#### Query Parameters

- **`label_set_id`** (optional): Validates that the request matches the database label set id. Must be provided together with `label_set_version`.
- **`label_set_version`** (optional): Specifies the highest label set version of label set id to query. Enables deterministic heal results across time even if the ENSRainbow server ingests label sets with greater versions than this value. If provided, only labels from label sets with versions less than or equal to this value will be returned.

Note on returned labels: The service returns labels exactly as they appear in the source data. This means:

- Labels may or may not be ENS-normalized
- Labels can contain any valid string, including dots, null bytes, or be empty
- Clients should handle all possible string values appropriately

#### Error Responses

- `400 Bad Request`: When the labelHash parameter is missing or invalid, or when query parameters are incorrectly specified

  ```json
  {
    "status": "error",
    "error": "Invalid labelHash - must be a valid hex string",
    "errorCode": 400
  }
  ```



  ```json
  {
    "status": "error",
    "error": "Requested label set version is higher than available label set version",
    "errorCode": 400
  }
  ```

- `404 Not Found`: When no label is found for the given labelHash

  ```json
  {
    "status": "error",
    "error": "Label not found",
    "errorCode": 404
  }
  ```

- `500 Internal Server Error`: When an unexpected error occurs or database is not initialized
  ```json
  {
    "status": "error",
    "error": "Internal server error",
    "errorCode": 500
  }
  ```

## Get Count of Healable Labels

```bash
curl http://localhost:3223/v1/labels/count
```

Success Response:

```json
{
  "status": "success",
  "count": 133856894,
  "timestamp": "2024-01-30T11:18:56Z"
}
```

#### Error Responses

```json
{
  "status": "error",
  "error": "Label count not initialized. Check that the ingest command has been run.",
  "errorCode": 500
}
```

## Get Version Information

```bash
curl http://localhost:3223/v1/version
```

Success Response:

```json
{
  "status": "success",
  "version": "0.1.0",
  "dbSchemaVersion": 3,
  "labelSet": {
    "labelSetId": "subgraph",
    "highestLabelSetVersion": 0
  }
}
```

The response contains:
- `version`: The current version of ENSRainbow
- `dbSchemaVersion`: The current schema version of the database
- `labelSet`: The label set of the loaded database
  - `labelSetId`: The label set id of the loaded database
  - `highestLabelSetVersion`: The highest label set version available in the database

Commit message:

fix: correct terminology and enhance documentation for ENSRainbow
- Updated error messages to use consistent terminology for "labelhash" across the codebase and documentation.
- Improved clarity in the documentation by standardizing terms such as "Label Set ID" and "Label Set Version."
- Enhanced API usage examples to reflect the correct endpoints and parameters, ensuring users have accurate information for implementation.
- Revised sections on data ingestion and Docker deployment to clarify requirements and streamline the setup process.

docs/ensnode.io/src/content/docs/ensrainbow/usage/api.mdx, after:

---
title: ENSRainbow API
description: Complete HTTP API reference for ENSRainbow label healing service.
sidebar:
  label: API
  order: 2
---

## Endpoint Summary

| Endpoint | Purpose | Key Response Types |
|----------|---------|--------------------|
| `GET /health` | Liveness probe for orchestration | `{ status: "ok" }` |
| `GET /v1/heal/{labelhash}` | Heal a single labelhash | `HealSuccess`, `HealError` |
| `GET /v1/labels/count` | Current healable label count | `CountSuccess`, `CountServerError` |
| `GET /v1/version` | Server & database schema info plus label set details | `VersionInfo` |

:::tip[Deterministic Results]
Pin `labelSetVersion` in your client if you need **deterministic results** across time. See the [Label Sets & Versioning guide](/ensrainbow/concepts/label-sets-and-versioning/) for details.
:::

## Health Check

```bash
curl https://api.ensrainbow.io/health
```

Response: `{"status":"ok"}`

## Heal Label

### Basic Usage

```bash
curl https://api.ensrainbow.io/v1/heal/0x[labelhash]
```

Example:

```bash
curl https://api.ensrainbow.io/v1/heal/0xaf2caa1c2ca1d027f1ac823b529d0a67cd144264b2789fa2ea4d63a67c7103cc
```

Response:

```json
{
  "status": "success",
  "label": "vitalik"
}
```

### Advanced Usage with Query Parameters

You can optionally specify `label_set_id` and `label_set_version` query parameters for additional validation:

```bash
curl "https://api.ensrainbow.io/v1/heal/0xaf2caa1c2ca1d027f1ac823b529d0a67cd144264b2789fa2ea4d63a67c7103cc?label_set_id=subgraph&label_set_version=0"
```

#### Query Parameters

- **`label_set_id`** (optional): Validates that the request matches the database label set ID. Must be provided together with `label_set_version`.
- **`label_set_version`** (optional): Specifies the highest label set version of label set ID to query. Enables deterministic heal results across time even if the ENSRainbow server ingests label sets with greater versions than this value. If provided, only labels from label sets with versions less than or equal to this value will be returned.

Note on returned labels: The service returns labels exactly as they appear in the source data. This means:

- Labels may or may not be ENS-normalized
- Labels can contain any valid string, including dots, null bytes, or be empty
- Clients should handle all possible string values appropriately

#### Error Responses

- `400 Bad Request`: When the labelhash parameter is missing or invalid, or when query parameters are incorrectly specified

  ```json
  {
    "status": "error",
    "error": "Invalid labelhash - must be a valid hex string",
    "errorCode": 400
  }
  ```



  ```json
  {
    "status": "error",
    "error": "Requested label set version is higher than available label set version",
    "errorCode": 400
  }
  ```

- `404 Not Found`: When no label is found for the given labelhash

  ```json
  {
    "status": "error",
    "error": "Label not found",
    "errorCode": 404
  }
  ```

- `500 Internal Server Error`: When an unexpected error occurs or database is not initialized
  ```json
  {
    "status": "error",
    "error": "Internal server error",
    "errorCode": 500
  }
  ```

:::tip[Having trouble with API errors?]
Check the [Troubleshooting guide](/ensrainbow/usage/troubleshooting/) for solutions to common issues.
:::

## Get Count of Healable Labels

```bash
curl https://api.ensrainbow.io/v1/labels/count
```

Success Response:

```json
{
  "status": "success",
  "count": 133856894,
  "timestamp": "2024-01-30T11:18:56Z"
}
```

#### Error Responses

```json
{
  "status": "error",
  "error": "Label count not initialized. Check that the ingest command has been run.",
  "errorCode": 500
}
```

## Get Version Information

```bash
curl https://api.ensrainbow.io/v1/version
```

Success Response:

```json
{
  "status": "success",
  "version": "0.1.0",
  "dbSchemaVersion": 3,
  "labelSet": {
    "labelSetId": "subgraph",
    "highestLabelSetVersion": 0
  }
}
```

The response contains:
- `version`: The current version of ENSRainbow
- `dbSchemaVersion`: The current schema version of the database
- `labelSet`: The label set of the loaded database
  - `labelSetId`: The label set ID of the loaded database
  - `highestLabelSetVersion`: The highest label set version available in the database
