docs/ensnode.io/src/content/docs/ensrainbow/contributing/index.mdx, before:

---
title: ENSRainbow Development and Contributions
description: Learn how to run ENSRainbow locally for development and contributions.
sidebar:
  label: Overview
  order: 1
---

import { LinkCard } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

:::note
This guide covers running ENSRainbow locally for development and contributions.
:::

## Local Development

:::caution[Follow ENSNode's Contribution Guide First]
Follow ENSNode's [contribution guide](/ensnode/contributing/) to prepare your workspace environment & install dependencies.
:::

### Get the Rainbow Tables

Our copies of the original ENS rainbow tables (6.37 GB) are stored in a public bucket.

```bash
pnpm run get-legacy-data
```

This command will:
- Download the required files (rainbow tables, checksum, and MIT license)
- Automatically verify the checksum
- Place the files in a convenient directory for subsequent use of the ingest command

### Produce Data Directory

Run data ingestion and verify the number of unique label-labelhash pairs in the database:

```bash
pnpm run ingest
```

### Start ENSRainbow

```bash
pnpm run serve
```

You can verify the service is running by checking the health endpoint or retrieving the label count:

```bash
# Health check
curl http://localhost:3223/health

# Get count of healable labels
curl http://localhost:3223/v1/labels/count
```

Expected count as of January 30, 2024: 133,856,894 unique label-labelhash pairs

## Building the Docker Image

For instructions on building the ENSRainbow Docker image, see the [Building Docker Images](/ensrainbow/contributing/building) guide.

<LinkCard
  title="Building ENSRainbow Docker Images"
  description="Learn how to build the ENSRainbow Docker image"
  href="/ensrainbow/contributing/building"
/>

## Service Management

### Graceful Shutdown

The service handles graceful shutdown on SIGTERM and SIGINT signals (e.g., when receiving Ctrl+C or Docker stop commands).

### Database Management

If you need to start fresh with the database:
1. Stop any running ENSRainbow processes
2. Delete the LevelDB data directory (default: './data')
3. Run the ingest command again

## System Requirements

### Data Ingestion Requirements (`ingest` command)

- **Storage**:
  - At least 15 GB of free disk space:
    - 6.37 GB for the compressed rainbow tables download
    - ~7 GB for the LevelDB database after ingestion
    - Additional temporary space during build/ingestion
- **Memory**: At least 4 GB RAM recommended

### API Server Requirements (`serve` command)

- **Storage**: 7.61 GB for the Docker image (pre-built with LevelDB database)
- **Memory**: Minimum 1 GB RAM (4 GB recommended for optimal performance)
- **CPU**: Minimal requirements - operates well with low CPU resources


## Command Line Interface

ENSRainbow provides a command-line interface (CLI) for managing the service. You can view detailed help for any command by adding `--help` after the command:

### Data Ingestion

```bash
pnpm run ingest [--input-file path/to/ens_names.sql.gz] [--data-dir path/to/db]
```

- `input-file`: Path to the gzipped [SQL dump file containing ENS rainbow tables](#getting-the-rainbow-tables) (default: './ens_names.sql.gz'). Only used during data ingestion.
- `data-dir`: Directory for the LevelDB database. If not provided, defaults to `data/`

### Database Validation

```bash
pnpm run validate [--data-dir path/to/db]
```

Validates database integrity by:
- Verifying the keys for all rainbow records are valid labelhashes
- Ensuring stored labels match their corresponding labelhashes
- Validating the total rainbow record count
- Verifying no ingestion was interrupted before successful completion

The process will exit with:
- Code 0: Validation successful
- Code 1: Validation failed or errors encountered

### Database Purge

```bash
pnpm run purge [--data-dir path/to/db]
```
Completely removes all files from the specified data directory. This is useful when you need to start fresh with a clean database.

The process will exit with:
- Code 0: Successful purge
- Code 1: Error during purge operation

### API Server

```bash
pnpm run serve [--port 3223] [--data-dir path/to/db]
```

Starts the API server. The process will exit with:
- Code 0: Clean shutdown
- Code 1: Error during operation

Commit message:

feat: enhance database validation and schema version checks

docs/ensnode.io/src/content/docs/ensrainbow/contributing/index.mdx, after:

---
title: ENSRainbow Development and Contributions
description: Learn how to run ENSRainbow locally for development and contributions.
sidebar:
  label: Overview
  order: 1
---

import { LinkCard } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

:::note
This guide covers running ENSRainbow locally for development and contributions.
:::

## Local Development

:::caution[Follow ENSNode's Contribution Guide First]
Follow ENSNode's [contribution guide](/ensnode/contributing/) to prepare your workspace environment & install dependencies.
:::

### Get the Rainbow Tables

Our copies of the original ENS rainbow tables (6.37 GB) are stored in a public bucket.

```bash
pnpm run get-legacy-data
```

This command will:
- Download the required files (rainbow tables, checksum, and MIT license)
- Automatically verify the checksum
- Place the files in a convenient directory for subsequent use of the ingest command

### Produce Data Directory

Run data ingestion and verify the number of unique label-labelhash pairs in the database:

```bash
pnpm run ingest
```

### Start ENSRainbow

```bash
pnpm run serve
```

You can verify the service is running by checking the health endpoint or retrieving the label count:

```bash
# Health check
curl http://localhost:3223/health

# Get count of healable labels
curl http://localhost:3223/v1/labels/count
```

Expected count as of January 30, 2024: 133,856,894 unique label-labelhash pairs

## Building the Docker Image

For instructions on building the ENSRainbow Docker image, see the [Building Docker Images](/ensrainbow/contributing/building) guide.

<LinkCard
  title="Building ENSRainbow Docker Images"
  description="Learn how to build the ENSRainbow Docker image"
  href="/ensrainbow/contributing/building"
/>

## Service Management

### Graceful Shutdown

The service handles graceful shutdown on SIGTERM and SIGINT signals (e.g., when receiving Ctrl+C or Docker stop commands).

### Database Management

If you need to start fresh with the database:
1. Stop any running ENSRainbow processes
2. Delete the LevelDB data directory (default: './data')
3. Run the ingest command again

## System Requirements

### Data Ingestion Requirements (`ingest` command)

- **Storage**:
  - At least 15 GB of free disk space:
    - 6.37 GB for the compressed rainbow tables download
    - ~7 GB for the LevelDB database after ingestion
    - Additional temporary space during build/ingestion
- **Memory**: At least 4 GB RAM recommended

### API Server Requirements (`serve` command)

- **Storage**: 7.61 GB for the Docker image (pre-built with LevelDB database)
- **Memory**: Minimum 1 GB RAM (4 GB recommended for optimal performance)
- **CPU**: Minimal requirements - operates well with low CPU resources


## Command Line Interface

ENSRainbow provides a command-line interface (CLI) for managing the service. You can view detailed help for any command by adding `--help` after the command:

### Data Ingestion

```bash
pnpm run ingest [--input-file path/to/ens_names.sql.gz] [--data-dir path/to/db]
```

- `input-file`: Path to the gzipped [SQL dump file containing ENS rainbow tables](#getting-the-rainbow-tables) (default: './ens_names.sql.gz'). Only used during data ingestion.
- `data-dir`: Directory for the LevelDB database. If not provided, defaults to `data/`

### Database Validation

```bash
pnpm run validate [--data-dir path/to/db] [--lite]
```

Validates database integrity by:
- Verifying the keys for all rainbow records are valid labelhashes
- Ensuring stored labels match their corresponding labelhashes
- Validating the total rainbow record count
- Verifying no ingestion was interrupted before successful completion

The `--lite` option performs a faster, less thorough validation by skipping hash verification and record count validation. It only checks that:
- The ingestion was completed successfully
- The schema version is correct
- The precalculated count exists and can be retrieved

The process will exit with:
- Code 0: Validation successful
- Code 1: Validation failed or errors encountered

### Database Purge

```bash
pnpm run purge [--data-dir path/to/db]
```
Completely removes all files from the specified data directory. This is useful when you need to start fresh with a clean database.

The process will exit with:
- Code 0: Successful purge
- Code 1: Error during purge operation

### API Server

```bash
pnpm run serve [--port 3223] [--data-dir path/to/db]
```

Starts the API server. The process will exit with:
- Code 0: Clean shutdown
- Code 1: Error during operation
