docs/ensrainbow/src/content/docs/guides/quick-start.mdx, before:

---
title: Quick Start
---

## Quick Start with Docker

1. Build the Docker image (includes data download & ingestion):

```bash
# while in the monorepo root directory
docker build -t ensnode/ensrainbow -f apps/ensrainbow/Dockerfile .
```

2. Run the container:

```bash
docker run -d -p 3223:3223 ensnode/ensrainbow
```

The service will be available at `http://localhost:3223`.

## NameHash Labs Hosted Instance

NameHash Labs operates a freely available instance of ENSRainbow for the ENS community at https://api.ensrainbow.io. This service:

- Is provided free of charge with no API key required
- Has no rate limiting
- Is maintained and monitored by the NameHash Labs team
- Runs the latest version of ENSRainbow

### Using the Hosted Instance

Simply replace `localhost:3223` with `api.ensrainbow.io` in the API examples:

```bash
# Health check
curl https://api.ensrainbow.io/health

# Heal a label
curl https://api.ensrainbow.io/v1/heal/0x[labelhash]

# Get count of healable labels
curl https://api.ensrainbow.io/v1/labels/count
```

While we aim for high availability, if you need guaranteed uptime or want to keep your requests private, we recommend running your own instance using the instructions above.

## API Endpoints

### Health Check

```bash
curl http://localhost:3223/health
```

Response: `{"status":"ok"}`

### Heal Label

```bash
curl http://localhost:3223/v1/heal/0x[labelhash]
```

Example:

```bash
curl http://localhost:3223/v1/heal/0xaf2caa1c2ca1d027f1ac823b529d0a67cd144264b2789fa2ea4d63a67c7103cc
```

Response:
```json
{
  "status": "success",
  "label": "vitalik"
}
```

Note on returned labels: The service returns labels exactly as they appear in the source data. This means:

- Labels may or may not be ENS-normalized
- Labels can contain any valid string, including dots, null bytes, or be empty
- Clients should handle all possible string values appropriately

Error Responses:

- `400 Bad Request`: When the labelhash parameter is missing or invalid
  ```json
  {
    "status": "error",
    "error": "Invalid labelhash - must be a valid hex string",
    "errorCode": 400
  }
  ```

- `404 Not Found`: When no label is found for the given labelhash
  ```json
  {
    "status": "error",
    "error": "Label not found",
    "errorCode": 404
  }
  ```

- `500 Internal Server Error`: When an unexpected error occurs or database is not initialized
  ```json
  {
    "status": "error",
    "error": "Internal server error",
    "errorCode": 500
  }
  ```

### Get Count of Healable Labels

```bash
curl http://localhost:3223/v1/labels/count
```

Success Response:
```json
{
  "status": "success",
  "count": 133856894,
  "timestamp": "2024-01-30T11:18:56Z"
}
```

Error Response (if database not initialized):
```json
{
  "status": "error",
  "error": "Label count not initialized. Check that the ingest command has been run.",
  "errorCode": 500
}
```

## Environment Variables

### Server Variables
- `PORT`: Server port (default: 3223)
- `DATA_DIR`: Directory for LevelDB data (default: './data')
- `LOG_LEVEL`: Logging level, one of: "debug", "info", "warn", "error" (default: "info")

Commit message:

Added Railway deploy to astro docs for ENSRainbow

docs/ensrainbow/src/content/docs/guides/quick-start.mdx, after:

---
title: Quick Start
---

## Quick Start with Railway

You can easily deploy ENSRainbow instance using predefined Railway template. Please refer to Railway template description for further details.

 [![Deploy on Railway](https://railway.com/button.svg)](https://railway.com/template/Ddy-Qg?referralCode=HxmgeB)

## Quick Start with Docker

1. Build the Docker image (includes data download & ingestion):

```bash
# while in the monorepo root directory
docker build -t ensnode/ensrainbow -f apps/ensrainbow/Dockerfile .
```

2. Run the container:

```bash
docker run -d -p 3223:3223 ensnode/ensrainbow
```

The service will be available at `http://localhost:3223`.

## NameHash Labs Hosted Instance

NameHash Labs operates a freely available instance of ENSRainbow for the ENS community at https://api.ensrainbow.io. This service:

- Is provided free of charge with no API key required
- Has no rate limiting
- Is maintained and monitored by the NameHash Labs team
- Runs the latest version of ENSRainbow

### Using the Hosted Instance

Simply replace `localhost:3223` with `api.ensrainbow.io` in the API examples:

```bash
# Health check
curl https://api.ensrainbow.io/health

# Heal a label
curl https://api.ensrainbow.io/v1/heal/0x[labelhash]

# Get count of healable labels
curl https://api.ensrainbow.io/v1/labels/count
```

While we aim for high availability, if you need guaranteed uptime or want to keep your requests private, we recommend running your own instance using the instructions above.

## API Endpoints

### Health Check

```bash
curl http://localhost:3223/health
```

Response: `{"status":"ok"}`

### Heal Label

```bash
curl http://localhost:3223/v1/heal/0x[labelhash]
```

Example:

```bash
curl http://localhost:3223/v1/heal/0xaf2caa1c2ca1d027f1ac823b529d0a67cd144264b2789fa2ea4d63a67c7103cc
```

Response:
```json
{
  "status": "success",
  "label": "vitalik"
}
```

Note on returned labels: The service returns labels exactly as they appear in the source data. This means:

- Labels may or may not be ENS-normalized
- Labels can contain any valid string, including dots, null bytes, or be empty
- Clients should handle all possible string values appropriately

Error Responses:

- `400 Bad Request`: When the labelhash parameter is missing or invalid
  ```json
  {
    "status": "error",
    "error": "Invalid labelhash - must be a valid hex string",
    "errorCode": 400
  }
  ```

- `404 Not Found`: When no label is found for the given labelhash
  ```json
  {
    "status": "error",
    "error": "Label not found",
    "errorCode": 404
  }
  ```

- `500 Internal Server Error`: When an unexpected error occurs or database is not initialized
  ```json
  {
    "status": "error",
    "error": "Internal server error",
    "errorCode": 500
  }
  ```

### Get Count of Healable Labels

```bash
curl http://localhost:3223/v1/labels/count
```

Success Response:
```json
{
  "status": "success",
  "count": 133856894,
  "timestamp": "2024-01-30T11:18:56Z"
}
```

Error Response (if database not initialized):
```json
{
  "status": "error",
  "error": "Label count not initialized. Check that the ingest command has been run.",
  "errorCode": 500
}
```

## Environment Variables

### Server Variables
- `PORT`: Server port (default: 3223)
- `DATA_DIR`: Directory for LevelDB data (default: './data')
- `LOG_LEVEL`: Logging level, one of: "debug", "info", "warn", "error" (default: "info")
