docs/ensnode.io/src/content/docs/ensrainbow/deploying/docker.mdx, before:

---
title: Deploying ENSRainbow with Docker
sidebar:
  label: Docker
  order: 3
---

import { LinkCard } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

NameHash Labs publishes the latest version of ENSRainbow as a docker container. The Docker image is lightweight and downloads the requested database at runtime based on environment variables.

## Quick Start

For a quick test setup with test data:

```bash
# Create a directory for persistent data storage
mkdir -p ~/my_ensrainbow_data

# Run with the ens-test-env data
docker run -d --name ensrainbow \
  -v ~/my_ensrainbow_data:/app/apps/ensrainbow/data \
  -e DB_SCHEMA_VERSION="3" \
  -e LABEL_SET_ID="ens-test-env" \
  -e LABEL_SET_VERSION="0" \
  -p 3223:3223 \
  ghcr.io/namehash/ensnode/ensrainbow:latest
```

The service will be available at `http://localhost:3223`.

:::note[Image Size]
The ENSRainbow storage needed is from 1 MB to dozens GB depending on the label set ID and label set version.
## Production Setup

For full ENS Subgraph backward compatibility use the `subgraph` label set ID and 0 as the label set version (for maximized label healing use the `searchlight` label set ID and the latest label set version):

```bash
# Create a directory for persistent data storage
mkdir -p ~/ensrainbow_production_data

# Run with production data
docker run -d --name ensrainbow_production \
  -v ~/ensrainbow_production_data:/app/apps/ensrainbow/data \
  -e DB_SCHEMA_VERSION="3" \
  -e LABEL_SET_ID="subgraph" \
  -e LABEL_SET_VERSION="0" \
  -p 3223:3223 \
  ghcr.io/namehash/ensnode/ensrainbow:latest
```

## Required Environment Variables

The following environment variables are **required** for the initial ENSRainbow database download:

- **`DB_SCHEMA_VERSION`**: Specifies the database schema version (e.g., `3`). This determines the format and structure of the pre-built ENSRainbow database archives and is not related to the API version.
  - **Goal**: Ensures compatibility between the ENSRainbow software and the structure of downloaded database files that are prebuilt for startup-time optimizations.
  - **Configuration**: It is strongly recommended to use the latest available schema version unless you have specific compatibility requirements.

- **`LABEL_SET_ID`**: The identifier for a **Label Set**, which is a collection of ENS labelhash-to-label mappings from a specific source.
  - **Goal**: To enable the extensible definition of new label sets (e.g., subgraph vs. production vs. test).
  - **Configuration**: Choose the label set ID that matches your needs: 
    - `subgraph` - Main production dataset from The Graph's ENS subgraph
    - `searchlight` - Extended dataset with additional label discoveries
    - `discoveryA` - Dataset for dynamically discovered labels (initially empty)
    - `ens-test-env` - Small test dataset for development and testing. It is perfectly aligned with the set of labels expected by the [ens-test-env](https://github.com/ensdomains/ens-test-env).

- **`LABEL_SET_VERSION`**: A non-negative integer representing the version of a **Label Set**.
  - **Goal**: To support the deterministic evolution of datasets over time, allowing services to achieve reproducible results.
  - **Configuration**: Use the highest available version number for the most up-to-date data. Versions are sequential and incremental:
    - `0` - The initial/base version of the **Label Set**.
    - `1`, `2`, etc. - Incremental updates to the **Label Set**.

## Persistent Storage

:::important[Persistent Storage Required]
You **must** mount a Docker volume to `/app/apps/ensrainbow/data` to ensure the database persists between container restarts. Without persistent storage, the database will be re-downloaded every time the container starts.
:::

### Using Named Docker Volumes (Recommended)

```bash
# Create a named volume (only needs to be done once)
docker volume create ensrainbow_db_volume

# Run with named volume
docker run -d --name ensrainbow \
  -v ensrainbow_db_volume:/app/apps/ensrainbow/data \
  -e DB_SCHEMA_VERSION="3" \
  -e LABEL_SET_ID="subgraph" \
  -e LABEL_SET_VERSION="0" \
  -p 3223:3223 \
  ghcr.io/namehash/ensnode/ensrainbow:latest
```

### Using Host Directories

```bash
# Create a directory on your host machine
mkdir -p ~/ensrainbow_data

# Run with host directory mount
docker run -d --name ensrainbow \
  -v ~/ensrainbow_data:/app/apps/ensrainbow/data \
  -e DB_SCHEMA_VERSION="3" \
  -e LABEL_SET_ID="subgraph" \
  -e LABEL_SET_VERSION="0" \
  -p 3223:3223 \
  ghcr.io/namehash/ensnode/ensrainbow:latest
```

## Docker Compose

To use ENSRainbow as part of a [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) setup:

```yml
version: '3.8'

services:
  ensrainbow:
    container_name: ensrainbow
    image: ghcr.io/namehash/ensnode/ensrainbow:latest
    environment:
      - DB_SCHEMA_VERSION=3
      - LABEL_SET_ID=subgraph
      - LABEL_SET_VERSION=0
    volumes:
      - ensrainbow_data:/app/apps/ensrainbow/data
    ports:
      - "3223:3223"
    restart: unless-stopped

volumes:
  ensrainbow_data:
```

For the ens-test-env:

```yml
version: '3.8'

services:
  ensrainbow:
    container_name: ensrainbow_test
    image: ghcr.io/namehash/ensnode/ensrainbow:latest
    environment:
      - DB_SCHEMA_VERSION=3
      - LABEL_SET_ID=ens-test-env
      - LABEL_SET_VERSION=0
    volumes:
      - ensrainbow_test_data:/app/apps/ensrainbow/data
    ports:
      - "3223:3223"
    restart: unless-stopped

volumes:
  ensrainbow_test_data:
```

## How Data Download Works

1. **First Run**: When the container starts with an empty volume, it downloads the specified pre-built ENSRainbow database archive based on the environment variables
2. **Subsequent Runs**: The container detects existing data and skips the download, using the persisted database
3. **Data Validation**: The container validates the existing data on startup and re-downloads if corruption is detected

:::tip[Port Mapping]
The port mapping (`-p 3223:3223` or `ports` in docker-compose) is only needed if you want to access ENSRainbow from the host machine. If you're only accessing it from other containers in the same network, you can omit the port mapping.
:::

<LinkCard
  title="Configuration"
  description="View the ENSRainbow configuration options"
  href="/ensrainbow/usage/configuration/"
/>

Commit message:

feat: revamp ENSRainbow documentation and structure
- Updated the main documentation to provide a comprehensive overview of ENSRainbow, including its purpose, functionality, and integration methods.
- Reorganized content into focused sections such as Concepts, Usage, and Contributing, enhancing navigability and clarity for users.
- Introduced new pages detailing the architecture, data model, and versioning system, along with a glossary of key terms.
- Removed outdated content and streamlined existing documentation to reflect the latest features and best practices for using ENSRainbow.
- Enhanced API and client SDK documentation to improve developer experience and facilitate easier integration.

docs/ensnode.io/src/content/docs/ensrainbow/deploying/docker.mdx, after:

---
title: Deploying ENSRainbow with Docker
sidebar:
  label: Docker
  order: 3
---

import { LinkCard } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

NameHash Labs publishes the latest version of ENSRainbow as a docker container. The Docker image is lightweight and downloads the requested database at runtime based on environment variables.

## Quick Start

For a quick test setup with test data:

```bash
# Create a directory for persistent data storage
mkdir -p ~/my_ensrainbow_data

# Run with the ens-test-env data
docker run -d --name ensrainbow \
  -v ~/my_ensrainbow_data:/app/apps/ensrainbow/data \
  -e DB_SCHEMA_VERSION="3" \
  -e LABEL_SET_ID="ens-test-env" \
  -e LABEL_SET_VERSION="0" \
  -p 3223:3223 \
  ghcr.io/namehash/ensnode/ensrainbow:latest
```

The service will be available at `http://localhost:3223`.

:::note[Image Size]
The ENSRainbow storage needed for a set of rainbow tables for healing unknown labels is from 1 MB to dozens GB depending on the label set ID and label set version.
## Production Setup

For full ENS Subgraph backward compatibility use the `subgraph` label set ID and 0 as the label set version (for maximized label healing use the `searchlight` label set ID and the latest label set version):

```bash
# Create a directory for persistent data storage
mkdir -p ~/ensrainbow_production_data

# Run with production data
docker run -d --name ensrainbow_production \
  -v ~/ensrainbow_production_data:/app/apps/ensrainbow/data \
  -e DB_SCHEMA_VERSION="3" \
  -e LABEL_SET_ID="subgraph" \
  -e LABEL_SET_VERSION="0" \
  -p 3223:3223 \
  ghcr.io/namehash/ensnode/ensrainbow:latest
```

## Required Environment Variables

:::tip[Looking for detailed variable descriptions?]
The complete, authoritative list of environment variables now lives on the
[Configuration](/ensrainbow/usage/configuration/) page.
Below is a concise reminder of the **three** variables you must set when running
the Docker image.
:::

| Variable | Purpose |
|----------|---------|
| `DB_SCHEMA_VERSION` | Selects the on-disk database schema |
| `LABEL_SET_ID` | Chooses which label-set to download (e.g. `subgraph`) |
| `LABEL_SET_VERSION` | Highest version of that label-set to include |

## Persistent Storage

:::important[Persistent Storage Required]
You **must** mount a Docker volume to `/app/apps/ensrainbow/data` to ensure the database persists between container restarts. Without persistent storage, the database will be re-downloaded every time the container starts.
:::

### Using Named Docker Volumes (Recommended)

```bash
# Create a named volume (only needs to be done once)
docker volume create ensrainbow_db_volume

# Run with named volume
docker run -d --name ensrainbow \
  -v ensrainbow_db_volume:/app/apps/ensrainbow/data \
  -e DB_SCHEMA_VERSION="3" \
  -e LABEL_SET_ID="subgraph" \
  -e LABEL_SET_VERSION="0" \
  -p 3223:3223 \
  ghcr.io/namehash/ensnode/ensrainbow:latest
```

### Using Host Directories

```bash
# Create a directory on your host machine
mkdir -p ~/ensrainbow_data

# Run with host directory mount
docker run -d --name ensrainbow \
  -v ~/ensrainbow_data:/app/apps/ensrainbow/data \
  -e DB_SCHEMA_VERSION="3" \
  -e LABEL_SET_ID="subgraph" \
  -e LABEL_SET_VERSION="0" \
  -p 3223:3223 \
  ghcr.io/namehash/ensnode/ensrainbow:latest
```

## Docker Compose

To use ENSRainbow as part of a [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) setup, use the following service definition:

```yml
version: '3.8'

services:
  ensrainbow:
    container_name: ensrainbow
    image: ghcr.io/namehash/ensnode/ensrainbow:latest
    environment:
      - DB_SCHEMA_VERSION=3
      - LABEL_SET_ID=subgraph
      - LABEL_SET_VERSION=0
    volumes:
      - ensrainbow_data:/app/apps/ensrainbow/data
    ports:
      - "3223:3223"
    restart: unless-stopped

volumes:
  ensrainbow_data:
```

For the ens-test-env:

```yml
version: '3.8'

services:
  ensrainbow:
    container_name: ensrainbow_test
    image: ghcr.io/namehash/ensnode/ensrainbow:latest
    environment:
      - DB_SCHEMA_VERSION=3
      - LABEL_SET_ID=ens-test-env
      - LABEL_SET_VERSION=0
    volumes:
      - ensrainbow_test_data:/app/apps/ensrainbow/data
    ports:
      - "3223:3223"
    restart: unless-stopped

volumes:
  ensrainbow_test_data:
```

## How Data Download Works

1. **First Run**: When the container starts with an empty volume, it downloads the specified pre-built ENSRainbow database archive based on the environment variables
2. **Subsequent Runs**: The container detects existing data and skips the download, using the persisted database
3. **Data Validation**: The container validates the existing data on startup

:::tip[Port Mapping]
The port mapping (`-p 3223:3223` or `ports` in docker-compose) is only needed if you want to access ENSRainbow from the host machine. If you're only accessing it from other containers in the same network, you can omit the port mapping.
:::

<LinkCard
  title="Configuration"
  description="View the ENSRainbow configuration options"
  href="/ensrainbow/usage/configuration/"
/>
