docs/ensnode.io/src/content/docs/ensnode/contributing/index.mdx, before:

---
title: ENSNode Development and Contributions
description: Learn how to run ENSNode locally for development and contributions.
sidebar:
  label: Overview
  order: 1
---

import { LinkCard } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

:::note
This guide covers running ENSNode locally for development and contributions.
:::

### Prerequisites

- [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
- [Postgres 17](https://www.postgresql.org/)
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/)
  - It's recommended you install Node.js through [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) or [asdf](https://asdf-vm.com/).
  - see `.nvmrc` and `.tool-versions` for the specific version of Node.js
- [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/)
  - Run `npm install -g pnpm` or see [other installation options](https://pnpm.io/installation).

### Prepare Workspace

Clone this repository:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:namehash/ensnode.git
cd ensnode
```

### Install Dependencies

```bash
pnpm install
```

## Running ENSNode

:::note
ENSNode is a suite of services, and some depend on others. Refer to the `docker-compose.yml` at the root of the monorepo for a full spec on the relationship between services.

<LinkCard
  title="View docker-compose.yml on GitHub"
  description="See the Docker Compose configuration file defining service relationships"
  href="https://github.com/namehash/ensnode/blob/main/docker-compose.yml"
  target="_blank"
/>
:::

### Configuring Environment Variables

```bash
cd apps/ensnode
cp .env.local.example .env.local
```

<LinkCard
  title="Environment Variable Configuration Options"
  href="/ensnode/usage/configuration"
/>

:::note
ENSNode's `.env.local` should be placed at `apps/ensnode/.env.local`, not at the monorepo root.
:::

#### 1. Running Postgres

Ensure Postgres in the background, providing its connection details to ENSNode via `DATABASE_URL`.

#### 2. Running ENSRainbow

:::note[Running ENSRainbow in Development]
To run ENSRainbow in development, the rainbow table data dir must be available. Follow instructions in the [ENSRainbow Contribution Guide](/ensrainbow/contributing) to set up your local environment.
:::

```bash
pnpm run serve
```

#### 3. Running ENSIndexer

```bash
# from monorepo root
pnpm run -F ensindexer dev

# or from apps/ensindexer
pnpm run dev
```

<LinkCard
  title="View Ponder Documentation"
  description="Learn more about running Ponder indexers in development and production"
  href="https://ponder.sh/"
  target="_blank"
/>

#### 4. Running ENSAdmin

```bash
cd apps/ensadmin
cp .env.local.example .env.local
```

```bash
# from monorepo root
pnpm run -F ensadmin dev

# or from apps/ensadmin
pnpm run dev
```

:::note
ENSAdmins's `.env.local` should be placed at `apps/ensadmin/.env.local`, not at the monorepo root.
:::

## Using Docker Compose

You can use Docker Compose to set up the ENSNode suite, along with its dependencies.

:::note[Docker in Development]
Re-building Docker containers is slow and inefficient, and doesn't lend itself to rapid development. The first half of this guide showed how to run ENSNode on your host machine, for faster iteration and maximum control. The Docker Compose spec is helpful for describing the suite of services and running them in a structured way, which we'll discuss below.
:::

### Prerequisites

Before you can use Docker Compose, ensure you have the following installed on your machine:

- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/get-started) - This is the platform that allows you to run containers.
- [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) - This is a tool for defining and running multi-container Docker applications.

### Running the Applications

To start the ENSNode application and its dependencies using Docker Compose, follow these steps:

```bash
docker compose up
```

- **ENSNode**: Available at [http://localhost:42069](http://localhost:42069)
- **ENSRainbow**: Available at [http://localhost:3223](http://localhost:3223)
- **ENSAdmin**: Available at [http://localhost:4173](http://localhost:4173)
- **PostgreSQL**: Available on port `5432`

### Stopping the Applications

To stop the running applications, you can press `Ctrl + C` in the terminal where Docker Compose is running. If you want to remove the containers and networks created by Docker Compose, you can run:

```bash
docker compose down
```

:::note
`docker compoe down` will _not_ delete the Postgres data volume defined here, as it is a named volume. To fully delete the Postgres data volume, use `docker compose down -v`.
:::

## Building Docker Images

For detailed instructions on building Docker images for ENSNode components, see the [Building Docker Images](/ensnode/contributing/building) guide.

Commit message:

feat: rename ensindexer where appropriate

docs/ensnode.io/src/content/docs/ensnode/contributing/index.mdx, after:

---
title: ENSNode Development and Contributions
description: Learn how to run ENSNode locally for development and contributions.
sidebar:
  label: Overview
  order: 1
---

import { LinkCard } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

:::note
This guide covers running ENSNode locally for development and contributions.
:::

### Prerequisites

- [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
- [Postgres 17](https://www.postgresql.org/)
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/)
  - It's recommended you install Node.js through [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) or [asdf](https://asdf-vm.com/).
  - see `.nvmrc` and `.tool-versions` for the specific version of Node.js
- [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/)
  - Run `npm install -g pnpm` or see [other installation options](https://pnpm.io/installation).

### Prepare Workspace

Clone this repository:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:namehash/ensnode.git
cd ensnode
```

### Install Dependencies

```bash
pnpm install
```

## Running ENSNode

:::note
ENSNode is a suite of services, and some depend on others. Refer to the `docker-compose.yml` at the root of the monorepo for a full spec on the relationship between services.

<LinkCard
  title="View docker-compose.yml on GitHub"
  description="See the Docker Compose configuration file defining service relationships"
  href="https://github.com/namehash/ensnode/blob/main/docker-compose.yml"
  target="_blank"
/>
:::

### Configuring Environment Variables

```bash
cd apps/ensindexer
cp .env.local.example .env.local
```

<LinkCard
  title="Environment Variable Configuration Options"
  href="/ensnode/usage/configuration"
/>

:::note
ENSIndexer's `.env.local` should be placed at `apps/ensindexer/.env.local`, _not_ at the monorepo root.
:::

#### 1. Running Postgres

Ensure Postgres in the background, providing its connection details to ENSIndexer via `DATABASE_URL`.

#### 2. Running ENSRainbow

:::note[Running ENSRainbow in Development]
To run ENSRainbow in development, the rainbow table data dir must be available. Follow instructions in the [ENSRainbow Contribution Guide](/ensrainbow/contributing) to set up your local environment.
:::

```bash
pnpm run serve
```

#### 3. Running ENSIndexer

```bash
# from monorepo root
pnpm run -F ensindexer dev

# or from apps/ensindexer
pnpm run dev
```

<LinkCard
  title="View Ponder Documentation"
  description="Learn more about running Ponder indexers in development and production"
  href="https://ponder.sh/"
  target="_blank"
/>

#### 4. Running ENSAdmin

```bash
cd apps/ensadmin
cp .env.local.example .env.local
```

```bash
# from monorepo root
pnpm run -F ensadmin dev

# or from apps/ensadmin
pnpm run dev
```

:::note
ENSAdmins's `.env.local` should be placed at `apps/ensadmin/.env.local`, _not_ at the monorepo root.
:::

## Using Docker Compose

You can use Docker Compose to set up the ENSNode suite, along with its dependencies.

:::note[Docker in Development]
Re-building Docker containers is slow and inefficient, and doesn't lend itself to rapid development. The first half of this guide showed how to run ENSNode on your host machine, for faster iteration and maximum control. The Docker Compose spec is helpful for describing the suite of services and running them in a structured way, which we'll discuss below.
:::

### Prerequisites

Before you can use Docker Compose, ensure you have the following installed on your machine:

- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/get-started)
- [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

### Running the Applications

To start the ENSNode services using Docker Compose, follow these steps:

```bash
docker compose up
```

- **ENSIndexer**: Available at [http://localhost:42069](http://localhost:42069)
- **ENSRainbow**: Available at [http://localhost:3223](http://localhost:3223)
- **ENSAdmin**: Available at [http://localhost:4173](http://localhost:4173)
- **PostgreSQL**: Available on port `5432`

### Stopping the Applications

To stop the running applications, you can press `Ctrl + C` in the terminal where Docker Compose is running. If you want to remove the containers and networks created by Docker Compose, you can run:

```bash
docker compose down
```

:::note[Postgres Volume in this `docker-compose.yml`]
`docker compoe down` will _not_ delete the Postgres data volume defined here, as it is a **named** volume. To fully delete the Postgres data volume and start from scratch, use `docker compose down -v`.
:::

## Building Docker Images

For detailed instructions on building Docker images for ENSNode components, see the [Building Docker Images](/ensnode/contributing/building) guide.
