docs/ensnode.io/src/content/docs/docs/usage/api.mdx, before:

---
title: Using ENSNode's API
sidebar:
  label: ENSNode's API
  order: 3
---

import { LinkCard } from "@astrojs/starlight/components";

## Subgraph API
ENSNode exposes a Subgraph-Compatible GraphQL endpoint at `/subgraph`.

:::note[Subgraph API Compatibility Reference]
For details on subgraph compatibility, see the Subgraph Compatibility documentation.

<LinkCard
  href="/docs/reference/subgraph-compatibility"
  title="Subgraph Compatibility"
/>
:::

### GraphiQL Playground

To explore the schema and run queries, use the GraphiQL Playground below.

<LinkCard
  href="https://api.alpha.ensnode.io/subgraph"
  title="Subgraph-compatible GraphiQL Playground"
/>

### GraphQL Examples

Fetch data about the three most recently-created domains.

```gql
{
  domains(orderBy: createdAt, orderDirection: desc, first: 3) {
    name
    expiryDate
  }
}
```

```json
{
  "data": {
    "domains": [
      {
        "name": "ensanguo.eth",
        "expiryDate": "1758170255"
      },
      {
        "name": "fiffer.eth",
        "expiryDate": "2041994243"
      },
      {
        "name": "rifaisicilia.eth",
        "expiryDate": "1758170039"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

## Config API

The Config API provides a complete view of an ENSNode instance's public
configuration, making it easy to understand and verify it's configuration.

**Endpoint:** `GET /api/config`

This endpoint returns the public configuration object containing all
the essential information about an ENSNode instance,
including ENS namespace, indexed chains, enabled features, active plugins,
and dependency versions.

### Key Configuration Details

The response includes several important configuration categories:

- **ENS**: current ENS namespace
- **Network Configuration**: URLs for ENSAdmin interface, public ENSNode API,
  and ENSRainbow service
- **Chains**: Lists of indexed chains
- **Feature Flags**: Boolean settings for experimental features and optional
  functionality
- **Plugins**: Activated plugins
- **Dependency Information**: Node.js version, Ponder framework version, and
  ENSRainbow schema details

### Example response

```json
{
  "ensAdminUrl": "https://admin.ensnode.io/",
  "ensNodePublicUrl": "https://api.alpha.ensnode.io/",
  "indexedChainIds": [
    1,
    8453,
    59144,
    10,
    42161,
    534352
  ],
  "databaseSchemaName": "alphaSchema0.31.0",
  "healReverseAddresses": true,
  "indexAdditionalResolverRecords": true,
  "isSubgraphCompatible": false,
  "namespace": "mainnet",
  "plugins": [
    "subgraph",
    "basenames",
    "lineanames",
    "threedns",
    "reverse-resolvers",
    "referrals",
    "tokenscope"
  ],
  "dependencyInfo": {
    "nodejs": "22.18.0",
    "ponder": "0.11.43",
    "ensRainbow": "0.31.0",
    "ensRainbowSchema": 2
  }
}
```

## Indexing Status API

Monitor an ENSNode's indexing progress across multiple chains with
the Indexing Status API. This endpoint provides detailed information
about which chains are being indexed, each chain's indexing status,
and the overall multichain indexing status.

**Endpoint:** `GET /api/indexing-status`

Perfect for building monitoring dashboards, health checks, or determining
whether your ENSNode has caught up with recent onchain activity.

### Understanding the Response

The status response provides both overall and chain-specific information.

### Example response

```json
{
  "omnichainStatus": "backfill",
  "chains": {
    "1": {
      "status": "backfill",
      "config": {
        "strategy": "indefinite",
        "startBlock": {
          "timestamp": 1489165544,
          "number": 3327417
        },
        "endBlock": null
      },
      "latestIndexedBlock": {
        "timestamp": 1496124933,
        "number": 3791243
      },
      "backfillEndBlock": {
        "timestamp": 1755182591,
        "number": 23139951
      }
    },
    "8453": {
      "status": "queued",
      "config": {
        "strategy": "indefinite",
        "startBlock": {
          "timestamp": 1721932307,
          "number": 17571480
        },
        "endBlock": null
      }
    }
  },
  "omnichainIndexingCursor": 1496124933
}
```

### Realtime Indexing Distance

When monitoring indexing or performing time-sensitive operations, you may wish to
verify that an ENSNode instance has indexed sufficient blocks to be within
an acceptable distance from the current "tip" of all indexed chains.

The Indexing Status API supports an optional `maxRealtimeDistance` query
parameter that enables this verification.

#### How it works

The `maxRealtimeDistance` parameter accepts a duration value in seconds,
representing the max allowed distance between the latest indexed block of each chain and the "tip" of all indexed chains.
When you include this parameter it influences the HTTP response code as follows:

- **Success (200 OK)**: The latest indexed block of each chain is within the requested distance from realtime.
- **Service Unavailable (503)**: The latest indexed block of each chain is NOT within the requested distance from realtime.

This allows your client to programmatically determine whether the ENSNode
instance is sufficiently synchronized for your use case before proceeding with
operations that depend on the latest onchain data.

Commit message:

feat: drop `maxRealtimeDistance` query param from Indexing Status API
This param is no longer in use. In exchange, the client can read `maxRealtimeDistance` field from Indexing Status API response, and decide on its own if the expected conditions are met.

docs/ensnode.io/src/content/docs/docs/usage/api.mdx, after:

---
title: Using ENSNode's API
sidebar:
  label: ENSNode's API
  order: 3
---

import { LinkCard } from "@astrojs/starlight/components";

## Subgraph API
ENSNode exposes a Subgraph-Compatible GraphQL endpoint at `/subgraph`.

:::note[Subgraph API Compatibility Reference]
For details on subgraph compatibility, see the Subgraph Compatibility documentation.

<LinkCard
  href="/docs/reference/subgraph-compatibility"
  title="Subgraph Compatibility"
/>
:::

### GraphiQL Playground

To explore the schema and run queries, use the GraphiQL Playground below.

<LinkCard
  href="https://api.alpha.ensnode.io/subgraph"
  title="Subgraph-compatible GraphiQL Playground"
/>

### GraphQL Examples

Fetch data about the three most recently-created domains.

```gql
{
  domains(orderBy: createdAt, orderDirection: desc, first: 3) {
    name
    expiryDate
  }
}
```

```json
{
  "data": {
    "domains": [
      {
        "name": "ensanguo.eth",
        "expiryDate": "1758170255"
      },
      {
        "name": "fiffer.eth",
        "expiryDate": "2041994243"
      },
      {
        "name": "rifaisicilia.eth",
        "expiryDate": "1758170039"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

## Config API

The Config API provides a complete view of an ENSNode instance's public
configuration, making it easy to understand and verify it's configuration.

**Endpoint:** `GET /api/config`

This endpoint returns the public configuration object containing all
the essential information about an ENSNode instance,
including ENS namespace, indexed chains, enabled features, active plugins,
and dependency versions.

### Key Configuration Details

The response includes several important configuration categories:

- **ENS**: current ENS namespace
- **Network Configuration**: URLs for ENSAdmin interface, public ENSNode API,
  and ENSRainbow service
- **Chains**: Lists of indexed chains
- **Feature Flags**: Boolean settings for experimental features and optional
  functionality
- **Plugins**: Activated plugins
- **Dependency Information**: Node.js version, Ponder framework version, and
  ENSRainbow schema details

### Example response

```json
{
  "ensAdminUrl": "https://admin.ensnode.io/",
  "ensNodePublicUrl": "https://api.alpha.ensnode.io/",
  "indexedChainIds": [
    1,
    8453,
    59144,
    10,
    42161,
    534352
  ],
  "databaseSchemaName": "alphaSchema0.31.0",
  "healReverseAddresses": true,
  "indexAdditionalResolverRecords": true,
  "isSubgraphCompatible": false,
  "namespace": "mainnet",
  "plugins": [
    "subgraph",
    "basenames",
    "lineanames",
    "threedns",
    "reverse-resolvers",
    "referrals",
    "tokenscope"
  ],
  "dependencyInfo": {
    "nodejs": "22.18.0",
    "ponder": "0.11.43",
    "ensRainbow": "0.31.0",
    "ensRainbowSchema": 2
  }
}
```

## Indexing Status API

Monitor an ENSNode's indexing progress across multiple chains with
the Indexing Status API. This endpoint provides detailed information
about which chains are being indexed, each chain's indexing status,
and the overall multichain indexing status.

**Endpoint:** `GET /api/indexing-status`

Perfect for building monitoring dashboards, health checks, or determining
whether your ENSNode has caught up with recent onchain activity.

### Understanding the Response

The status response provides both overall and chain-specific information.

### Example response

```json
{
  "omnichainStatus": "backfill",
  "chains": {
    "1": {
      "status": "backfill",
      "config": {
        "strategy": "indefinite",
        "startBlock": {
          "timestamp": 1489165544,
          "number": 3327417
        },
        "endBlock": null
      },
      "latestIndexedBlock": {
        "timestamp": 1496124933,
        "number": 3791243
      },
      "backfillEndBlock": {
        "timestamp": 1755182591,
        "number": 23139951
      }
    },
    "8453": {
      "status": "queued",
      "config": {
        "strategy": "indefinite",
        "startBlock": {
          "timestamp": 1721932307,
          "number": 17571480
        },
        "endBlock": null
      }
    }
  },
  "omnichainIndexingCursor": 1496124933
}
```

### Realtime Indexing Distance

When monitoring indexing or performing time-sensitive operations, you may wish to
verify that an ENSNode instance has indexed sufficient blocks to be within
an acceptable distance from the current "tip" of all indexed chains.

The Indexing Status API supports a `maxRealtimeDistance` field in response object
that enables this verification.

#### How it works

The `maxRealtimeDistance` field holds a duration value in seconds,
representing the max distance between the now and the latest indexed block of each chain and the "tip" of all indexed chains.

This allows your client to programmatically determine whether the ENSNode
instance is sufficiently synchronized for your use case before proceeding with
operations that depend on the latest onchain data.
