docs/ensnode.io/src/content/docs/docs/usage/querying-best-practices.mdx, before:

---
title: ENSNode API Querying Best Practices
sidebar:
  label: Querying Best Practices
  order: 10
---

:::note[Terminology]
It may be helpful to refer to the [Terminology](/docs/reference/terminology/) guide when reading this document.
:::

## Stable Name Identification

When querying the ENSNode API for specific names or sets of names, it's crucial to understand that the representation of labels (both known and unknown) should not generally be assumed to be immutable identifiers. Here's why:

### Label Mutability

- ENSNode indexes all onchain events where a subname is created in the ENS Registry. When these events are indexed, the labelhash of the subname is always known, however sometimes the label of the subname is unknown (strictly from indexed onchain data). When this happens ENSNode attempts to lookup the label for the labelhash through an attached ENSRainbow server. If this lookup succeeds, ENSNode will represent the subname using its true label. If this lookup fails, some label to represent the subname is still required. Therefore, ENSNode will represent the "unknown label" using its labelhash in the format `[labelhash]`.
- Changes in the set of healable labels maintained by an ENSRainbow instance can modify the resulting indexed state in attached ENSNode instances. For example, if at "time 1" ENSRainbow does not have knowledge to heal label X, but at "time 2" it does (from the perspective of an ENSNode client) a label represented as "unknown" at "time 1" could transition to become known at "time 2". Each ENSNode instance should ensure it is attached to an ENSRainbow instance that only grows its set of healable labels across time, such that from the perspective of an ENSNode client a "known label" should never transition back to its "unknown" representation. However, if an ENSNode instance is improperly operated, such a situation could occur.

### ENS Normalization Standard Changes

The [ENSIP-15: ENS Name Normalization Standard](https://docs.ens.domains/ensip/15) may change across time such that the set of normalizable names grows (thankfully it should never shrink). For example, consider a new Unicode release that standardizes new emoji. The ENS Normalize standard may subsequently change to expand support for those new emoji.

Therefore, always use the node of a name (calculated by the namehash of the name) as the stable identifier when querying the ENSNode API. The node of a name is immutable across time and works for all names, even if they are unknown, unnormalized, or unindexable.

### Recommended Query Patterns

There are two distinct patterns for querying names, depending on the source of the name:

#### Pattern 1: Names from User Input / Offchain Data

When querying ENSNode for names that originate from user input (e.g., search fields, user-entered addresses) or offchain data (e.g. traditional data sources), always apply the following procedure within your app:

1. Normalize the name according to ENSIP-15.
2. Calculate the `node` for the normalized name using the `namehash` function.
3. Query the `id` field of domains in ENSNode using `node` calculated in the previous step, rather than the name itself (for backwards compatibility with the ENS Subgraph, the field for the `node` of the name is actually the `id` field).

Example:

First, let's prepare the name for querying by normalizing it and calculating its node:

```typescript
import { namehash, normalize } from "viem/ens";

// 1. Normalize the user input according to ENSIP-15
const userInput = "Vitalik.eth";
const normalizedName = normalize(userInput);

// 2. Calculate the node from the normalized name
const node = namehash(normalizedName);
```

Now use this node to query the domain id in the ENSNode API:

```graphql
{
  domain(
    id: "0xee6c4522aab0003e8d14cd40a6af439055fd2577951148c14b6cea9a53475835"
  ) {
    id
    name
    labelName
    labelhash
    createdAt
  }
}
```

The query will return the domain information:

```json
{
  "data": {
    "domain": {
      "createdAt": "1497775154",
      "id": "0xee6c4522aab0003e8d14cd40a6af439055fd2577951148c14b6cea9a53475835",
      "labelName": "vitalik",
      "labelhash": "0xaf2caa1c2ca1d027f1ac823b529d0a67cd144264b2789fa2ea4d63a67c7103cc",
      "name": "vitalik.eth"
    }
  }
}
```

Here's a complete example showing how to put it all together using a GraphQL client:

```typescript
import { namehash, normalize } from "viem/ens";
import { createClient } from "graphql-request";

async function queryENSName(userInput: string) {
  // 1. Normalize the user input
  const normalizedName = normalize(userInput);

  // 2. Calculate the node
  const node = namehash(normalizedName);

  // 3. Set up the GraphQL client
  const client = createClient({
    url: "YOUR_ENSNODE_ENDPOINT",
  });

  // 4. Define the query
  const query = `
    query GetDomain($id: ID!) {
      domain(id: $id) {
        id
        name
        labelName
        labelhash
        createdAt
      }
    }
  `;

  // 5. Execute the query
  const result = await client.request(query, { id: node });
  return result;
}
```

#### Pattern 2: Names from Onchain Data

When querying for name values sourced directly from onchain data (e.g., ENS NFTs, contract events), you must:

1. Skip any normalization step - the name value passed to namehash must be exactly as it appears onchain, even if unnnormalized.
2. Calculate the node by taking the namehash of the onchain name (without any normalization). Be warned however that unnormalized labels may contain "." characters within the label value which can confuse namehash if special precautions are not taken.
3. Query the domain id in the ENSNode API using the node of the name

This pattern is crucial when dealing with unnormalized names that exist onchain. For example, if while examining onchain data you see a registration for "EXAMPLE.eth" (note the uppercase unnormalized characters), attempting to normalize this name in the process of querying ENSNode for additional information about it would result in looking up details for a different node in the ENS Registry (in this case the node for "example.eth" rather than "EXAMPLE.eth").

The query structure in Pattern 2 remains the same as Pattern 1, except the normalization step is skipped to ensure the node that you query data about is the intended node.

## Unnormalized Labels

:::note[Configuration Note]
ENSNode's handling of unnormalized labels is controlled by the `REPLACE_UNNORMALIZED` configuration option:
- `REPLACE_UNNORMALIZED=false` allows unnormalized labels to be returned (required for full ENS Subgraph compatibility)
- `REPLACE_UNNORMALIZED=true` (default) encodes unnormalized labels as labelhashes, improving security

For more details, see [Subgraph Compatibility](/docs/reference/subgraph-compatibility/#replace_unnormalized).
:::

### When `REPLACE_UNNORMALIZED=false`

ENSNode may return unnormalized labels associated with indexed names. It is important to note that **ENSNode clients should never attempt to normalize labels returned by ENSNode**. This is because when ENSNode returns an unnormalized label, that label is associated with a specific node that has been indexed. Normalizing an unnormalized label in this context would represent a different node.

There are effectively two distinct query patterns to consider:

1. User input / offchain data → ENSNode data: Normalization is appropriate and necessary
2. Onchain data → ENSNode data: Normalization should NOT be performed

An ENSNode client is permitted to validate that all labels returned by ENSNode are in normalized form, and to reject any names with unnormalized labels from further processing. However, the key principle is that an ENSNode client should never normalize returned labels, as normalization transforms the label and therefore also the node associated with the name the label is contained within.

### When `REPLACE_UNNORMALIZED=true`

When ENSNode is configured to replace unnormalized labels with encoded labelHashes, it helps you avoid edge cases related to null bytes, full-stop characters (periods), or exotic unicode characters. When names are returned from any of the ENSNode APIs, including the Subgraph-compatible GraphQL API, the only names will either be a) [normalized](https://ensnode.io/docs/reference/terminology/#name-node-namehash) or b) unnormalized in [encoded labelHash form](https://ensnode.io/docs/reference/terminology/#rendering-unknown-labels).

## Calculating the Node for Unknown Names

According to [ENSIP-1](https://docs.ens.domains/ensip/1#namehash-algorithm), the namehash algorithm makes no special consideration of unknown labels, and therefore interprets unknown labels literally. Due to this behavior, we recommend using an "unknown label aware" namehash algorithm implementation.

An example of such an implementation can be found in the viem library's namehash implementation:
The [viem namehash implementation](https://github.com/wevm/viem/blob/fe558fdef7e2e9cd5f3f57d8bdeae0c7ff67a1b0/src/utils/ens/namehash.ts#L36-L51) correctly calculates the node of names containing unknown labels.

## Unindexable Labels

ENSNode may sometimes represent a label as an unknown label if that label is "unindexable". This is an important consideration when working with the ENSNode API.

While many characters are not supported by ENSIP-15, only the following four characters are specifically classified as "unindexable" due to indexing concerns:

1. `\0` (null byte) - PostgreSQL does not allow storing this character in text fields
2. `.` (period) - Conflicts with ENS label separator logic
3. `[` (left square bracket) - Conflicts with "unknown label" representations
4. `]` (right square bracket) - Conflicts with "unknown label" representations

It's important to note that while onchain ENS contracts do not enforce ENSIP-15 normalization (due to factors like gas costs), these specific characters require special handling by indexers to avoid conflicts.

### Unknown Label Representation

When an unindexable label is encountered, ENSNode represents it as an "unknown label" in the format `[{labelhash}]`, where `{labelhash}` is the labelhash of the unknown label. This representation creates an interesting edge case that must be handled carefully:

Consider an unnormalized label that literally looks like `[24695ee963d29f0f52edfdea1e830d2fcfc9052d5ba70b194bddd0afbbc89765]`. Because this label contains square brackets (unindexable characters), it will be represented as the unknown label:
`[80968d00b78a91f47b233eaa213576293d16dadcbbdceb257bca94b08451ba7f]`

Therefore, this represents the unindexable label as an "unknown label", encoding the labelhash of the original unnormalized label (including its square brackets) in square brackets. This demonstrates why square brackets are considered unindexable - they create ambiguity between literal labels and the representation of unknown labels.

When ENSNode encounters an unindexable label, it will represent it as an unknown label even if the actual label data is available. This is a safety mechanism to ensure data integrity and consistent behavior across the system.

For more detailed information about unindexable labels and their handling, please refer to the [ENSNode SDK implementation](https://github.com/namehash/ensnode/blob/main/packages/@ensnode/ensnode-sdk/src/subname-helpers.ts#L14-L70).

Commit message:

feat: improve implementation and documentation of the subgraph-valid labels

docs/ensnode.io/src/content/docs/docs/usage/querying-best-practices.mdx, after:

---
title: ENSNode API Querying Best Practices
sidebar:
  label: Querying Best Practices
  order: 10
---

:::note[Terminology]
It may be helpful to refer to the [Terminology](/docs/reference/terminology/) guide when reading this document.
:::

## Stable Name Identification

When querying the ENSNode API for specific names or sets of names, it's crucial to understand that the representation of labels (both known and unknown) should not generally be assumed to be immutable identifiers. Here's why:

### Label Mutability

- ENSNode indexes all onchain events where a subname is created in the ENS Registry. When these events are indexed, the labelhash of the subname is always known, however sometimes the label of the subname is unknown (strictly from indexed onchain data). When this happens ENSNode attempts to lookup the label for the labelhash through an attached ENSRainbow server. If this lookup succeeds, ENSNode will represent the subname using its true label. If this lookup fails, some label to represent the subname is still required. Therefore, ENSNode will represent the "unknown label" using its labelhash in the format `[labelhash]`.
- Changes in the set of healable labels maintained by an ENSRainbow instance can modify the resulting indexed state in attached ENSNode instances. For example, if at "time 1" ENSRainbow does not have knowledge to heal label X, but at "time 2" it does (from the perspective of an ENSNode client) a label represented as "unknown" at "time 1" could transition to become known at "time 2". Each ENSNode instance should ensure it is attached to an ENSRainbow instance that only grows its set of healable labels across time, such that from the perspective of an ENSNode client a "known label" should never transition back to its "unknown" representation. However, if an ENSNode instance is improperly operated, such a situation could occur.

### ENS Normalization Standard Changes

The [ENSIP-15: ENS Name Normalization Standard](https://docs.ens.domains/ensip/15) may change across time such that the set of normalizable names grows (thankfully it should never shrink). For example, consider a new Unicode release that standardizes new emoji. The ENS Normalize standard may subsequently change to expand support for those new emoji.

Therefore, always use the node of a name (calculated by the namehash of the name) as the stable identifier when querying the ENSNode API. The node of a name is immutable across time and works for all names, even if they are unknown, unnormalized, or subgraph-invalid.

### Recommended Query Patterns

There are two distinct patterns for querying names, depending on the source of the name:

#### Pattern 1: Names from User Input / Offchain Data

When querying ENSNode for names that originate from user input (e.g., search fields, user-entered addresses) or offchain data (e.g. traditional data sources), always apply the following procedure within your app:

1. Normalize the name according to ENSIP-15.
2. Calculate the `node` for the normalized name using the `namehash` function.
3. Query the `id` field of domains in ENSNode using `node` calculated in the previous step, rather than the name itself (for backwards compatibility with the ENS Subgraph, the field for the `node` of the name is actually the `id` field).

Example:

First, let's prepare the name for querying by normalizing it and calculating its node:

```typescript
import { namehash, normalize } from "viem/ens";

// 1. Normalize the user input according to ENSIP-15
const userInput = "Vitalik.eth";
const normalizedName = normalize(userInput);

// 2. Calculate the node from the normalized name
const node = namehash(normalizedName);
```

Now use this node to query the domain id in the ENSNode API:

```graphql
{
  domain(
    id: "0xee6c4522aab0003e8d14cd40a6af439055fd2577951148c14b6cea9a53475835"
  ) {
    id
    name
    labelName
    labelhash
    createdAt
  }
}
```

The query will return the domain information:

```json
{
  "data": {
    "domain": {
      "createdAt": "1497775154",
      "id": "0xee6c4522aab0003e8d14cd40a6af439055fd2577951148c14b6cea9a53475835",
      "labelName": "vitalik",
      "labelhash": "0xaf2caa1c2ca1d027f1ac823b529d0a67cd144264b2789fa2ea4d63a67c7103cc",
      "name": "vitalik.eth"
    }
  }
}
```

Here's a complete example showing how to put it all together using a GraphQL client:

```typescript
import { namehash, normalize } from "viem/ens";
import { createClient } from "graphql-request";

async function queryENSName(userInput: string) {
  // 1. Normalize the user input
  const normalizedName = normalize(userInput);

  // 2. Calculate the node
  const node = namehash(normalizedName);

  // 3. Set up the GraphQL client
  const client = createClient({
    url: "YOUR_ENSNODE_ENDPOINT",
  });

  // 4. Define the query
  const query = `
    query GetDomain($id: ID!) {
      domain(id: $id) {
        id
        name
        labelName
        labelhash
        createdAt
      }
    }
  `;

  // 5. Execute the query
  const result = await client.request(query, { id: node });
  return result;
}
```

#### Pattern 2: Names from Onchain Data

When querying for name values sourced directly from onchain data (e.g., ENS NFTs, contract events), you must:

1. Skip any normalization step - the name value passed to namehash must be exactly as it appears onchain, even if unnnormalized.
2. Calculate the node by taking the namehash of the onchain name (without any normalization). Be warned however that unnormalized labels may contain "." characters within the label value which can confuse namehash if special precautions are not taken.
3. Query the domain id in the ENSNode API using the node of the name

This pattern is crucial when dealing with unnormalized names that exist onchain. For example, if while examining onchain data you see a registration for "EXAMPLE.eth" (note the uppercase unnormalized characters), attempting to normalize this name in the process of querying ENSNode for additional information about it would result in looking up details for a different node in the ENS Registry (in this case the node for "example.eth" rather than "EXAMPLE.eth").

The query structure in Pattern 2 remains the same as Pattern 1, except the normalization step is skipped to ensure the node that you query data about is the intended node.

## Unnormalized Labels

:::note[Configuration Note]
ENSNode's handling of unnormalized labels is controlled by the `REPLACE_UNNORMALIZED` configuration option:
- `REPLACE_UNNORMALIZED=false` allows unnormalized labels to be returned (required for full ENS Subgraph compatibility)
- `REPLACE_UNNORMALIZED=true` (default) encodes unnormalized labels as labelhashes, improving security

For more details, see [Subgraph Compatibility](/docs/reference/subgraph-compatibility/#replace_unnormalized).
:::

### When `REPLACE_UNNORMALIZED=false`

ENSNode may return unnormalized labels associated with indexed names. It is important to note that **ENSNode clients should never attempt to normalize labels returned by ENSNode**. This is because when ENSNode returns an unnormalized label, that label is associated with a specific node that has been indexed. Normalizing an unnormalized label in this context would represent a different node.

There are effectively two distinct query patterns to consider:

1. User input / offchain data → ENSNode data: Normalization is appropriate and necessary
2. Onchain data → ENSNode data: Normalization should NOT be performed

An ENSNode client is permitted to validate that all labels returned by ENSNode are in normalized form, and to reject any names with unnormalized labels from further processing. However, the key principle is that an ENSNode client should never normalize returned labels, as normalization transforms the label and therefore also the node associated with the name the label is contained within.

### When `REPLACE_UNNORMALIZED=true`

When ENSNode is configured to replace unnormalized labels with encoded labelHashes, it helps you avoid edge cases related to null bytes, full-stop characters (periods), or exotic unicode characters. When names are returned from any of the ENSNode APIs, including the Subgraph-compatible GraphQL API, the only names will either be a) [normalized](https://ensnode.io/docs/reference/terminology/#name-node-namehash) or b) unnormalized in [encoded labelHash form](https://ensnode.io/docs/reference/terminology/#rendering-unknown-labels).

## Calculating the Node for Unknown Names

According to [ENSIP-1](https://docs.ens.domains/ensip/1#namehash-algorithm), the namehash algorithm makes no special consideration of unknown labels, and therefore interprets unknown labels literally. Due to this behavior, we recommend using an "unknown label aware" namehash algorithm implementation.

An example of such an implementation can be found in the viem library's namehash implementation:
The [viem namehash implementation](https://github.com/wevm/viem/blob/fe558fdef7e2e9cd5f3f57d8bdeae0c7ff67a1b0/src/utils/ens/namehash.ts#L36-L51) correctly calculates the node of names containing unknown labels.

## ENS Subgraph 'Valid' and 'Invalid' Labels

When `REPLACE_UNNORMALIZED=false`, ENSNode may sometimes represent a label as an unknown label if that label is not "valid" according to the legacy ENS Subgraph logic. This is an important consideration when working with the ENSNode API when `REPLACE_UNNORMALIZED=false`.

While many characters are not supported by ENSIP-15, only the following four characters are specifically classified as subgraph-invalid due to indexing concerns:

1. `\0` (null byte) - PostgreSQL does not allow storing this character in text fields
2. `.` (period) - Conflicts with ENS label separator logic
3. `[` (left square bracket) - Conflicts with "unknown label" representations
4. `]` (right square bracket) - Conflicts with "unknown label" representations

It's important to note that while onchain ENS contracts do not enforce ENSIP-15 normalization (due to factors like gas costs), these specific characters require special handling by indexers to avoid conflicts.

### Unknown Label Representation

When a subgraph-invalid label is encountered, ENSNode represents it as an "unknown label" in the format `[{labelhash}]`, where `{labelhash}` is the labelhash of the unknown label. This representation creates an interesting edge case that must be handled carefully:

Consider an unnormalized label that literally looks like `[24695ee963d29f0f52edfdea1e830d2fcfc9052d5ba70b194bddd0afbbc89765]`. Because this label contains square brackets (subgraph-invalid characters), it will be represented as the unknown label:
`[80968d00b78a91f47b233eaa213576293d16dadcbbdceb257bca94b08451ba7f]`

Therefore, this represents the subgraph-invalid label as an "unknown label", encoding the labelhash of the original unnormalized label (including its square brackets) in square brackets. This demonstrates why square brackets are considered subgraph-invalid - they create ambiguity between literal labels and the representation of unknown labels.

When ENSNode encounters an subgraph-invalid label, it will represent it as an unknown label even if the actual label data is available. This is a safety mechanism to ensure data integrity and consistent behavior across the system.

For more detailed information about subgraph-invalid labels and their handling, please refer to the [ENSNode SDK implementation](https://github.com/namehash/ensnode/blob/main/packages/@ensnode/ensnode-sdk/src/ens/subgraph-label-valid.ts).
