docs/ensnode.io/src/content/docs/docs/deploying/terraform.mdx, before:

---
title: Deploying ENSNode with Terraform
sidebar:
  label: Terraform
  order: 4
---

import { LinkCard } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

This guide will help you deploy ENSNode using Terraform to Railway. The Terraform configuration provides a complete infrastructure setup including database, ENSIndexer, ENSRainbow, and other required services.

:::note[Important]
These Terraform scripts are currently specific to ENSNode instances hosted by NameHash Labs. While these scripts provide a good starting point for deploying your own ENSNode instance, you will need to make modifications to suit your specific deployment needs. We plan to generalize these scripts in the future to better support community deployments.
:::

<LinkCard
  title="Example Terraform Configuration"
  description="View the example Terraform configuration on GitHub."
  href="https://github.com/namehash/ensnode/tree/main/terraform"
/>

## Prerequisites

- [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/downloads.html) installed
- [Railway](https://railway.app/) account
- Railway API token (generate from https://railway.com/account/tokens)
- RPC URLs for the chains you want to support (Mainnet, Sepolia, Holesky, Base, Linea)
- AWS account (for DNS management)
- AWS S3 bucket defined inside AWS account - `ensnode-terraform` (for Terraform state)

## Configuration

Copy `.env.sample` to `.env.local` and fill in your configuration values:

```bash
railway_token    = "your_railway_token"
mainnet_rpc_url  = "your_mainnet_rpc_url"
sepolia_rpc_url  = "your_sepolia_rpc_url"
holesky_rpc_url  = "your_holesky_rpc_url"
base_rpc_url     = "your_base_rpc_url"
linea_rpc_url    = "your_linea_rpc_url"
ensnode_version  = "latest"  # or specific version
```

## Infrastructure Components

The Terraform configuration sets up the following components:

- Railway
  - Railway project and environment
  - PostgreSQL database
  - ENSIndexer services
  - ENSRainbow service
- AWS
  - DNS configuration

## Deployment Steps

1. Initialize Terraform:
```bash
terraform init
```

2. Review the planned changes:
```bash
terraform plan
```

3. Apply the configuration:
```bash
terraform apply
```

## Cleanup

To destroy the infrastructure:

```bash
terraform destroy
```

Commit message:

Added changes for docs considering Render update

docs/ensnode.io/src/content/docs/docs/deploying/terraform.mdx, after:

---
title: Deploying ENSNode with Terraform
sidebar:
  label: Terraform
  order: 4
---

import { LinkCard } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

This guide will help you deploy ENSNode using Terraform to Render. The Terraform configuration provides a complete infrastructure setup including database, ENSIndexer, ENSRainbow, and other required services.

:::note[Important]
These Terraform scripts are currently specific to ENSNode instances hosted by NameHash Labs. While these scripts provide a good starting point for deploying your own ENSNode instance, you will need to make modifications to suit your specific deployment needs. We plan to generalize these scripts in the future to better support community deployments.
:::

<LinkCard
  title="Example Terraform Configuration"
  description="View the example Terraform configuration on GitHub."
  href="https://github.com/namehash/ensnode/tree/main/terraform"
/>

## Prerequisites

- [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/downloads.html) installed
- [Render](https://https://render.com/) account
- Render API token (generate from https://render.com/docs/api#1-create-an-api-key)
- RPC URLs for the chains you want to support (Mainnet, Sepolia, Holesky, Base, Linea)
- AWS account (for DNS management)
- AWS S3 bucket defined inside AWS account - `ensnode-terraform` (for Terraform state)

## Configuration

Copy `.env.sample` to `.env.local` and fill in your configuration values:

```bash
railway_token    = "your_railway_token"
mainnet_rpc_url  = "your_mainnet_rpc_url"
sepolia_rpc_url  = "your_sepolia_rpc_url"
holesky_rpc_url  = "your_holesky_rpc_url"
base_rpc_url     = "your_base_rpc_url"
linea_rpc_url    = "your_linea_rpc_url"
ensnode_version  = "latest"  # or specific version
```

## Infrastructure Components

The Terraform configuration sets up the following components:

- Render
  - Render project and environment
  - PostgreSQL database
  - ENSIndexer services
  - ENSRainbow service
- AWS
  - DNS configuration

## Deployment Steps

1. Initialize Terraform:
```bash
terraform init
```

2. Review the planned changes:
```bash
terraform plan
```

3. Apply the configuration:
```bash
terraform apply
```

## Cleanup

To destroy the infrastructure:

```bash
terraform destroy
```
