docs/ensnode.io/src/content/docs/ensindexer/technical-reference/plugin-system.mdx, before:

---
title: Plugin System
description: Documentation of ENSNode's plugin architecture
sidebar:
  label: Plugin System
  order: 3
---

ENSNode uses a plugin-based architecture to support different data sources. It also makes ENSNode extensible by allowing new plugins to be added over time and each plugin is compartmentalized so that it can be developed, tested and deployed independently. When you run ENSNode, you can choose which plugins to activate so your instance doesn't have to index data which you don't need.

As the ENS ecosystem grows, so will the number of plugins available. ENS as a protocol is not the only useful data source. For example, many people trade ENS names on secondary markets and there is potential to index this data in ENSNode.

This architecture allows ENSNode to be extended to support new data sources with minimal modifications to the core codebase.

### Data Sources and Deployments

Before understanding how plugins work, it's important to understand the concept of a data source. A data source is a source of data that can be indexed. It can be a blockchain, off-chain API or any other source of data. Currently all plugins use blockchains as their data source but this is likely to change in the future.

A deployment is a collection of data sources. For example, the mainnet deployment includes all data sources. The `holesky` deployment only includes the `Root` data source which are the ENS contracts on `holesky`.

### Plugin Definition

An ENSIndexer plugin is defined by its Ponder config (network & contracts & abis & such) and the ponder handler registration code that it executes at runtime (via the `activate` function). A plugin has a relationship between at least one data source. For example, the threedns plugin has a relationship with 2 data sources: `ThreeDNSOptimism` and `ThreeDNSBase` and it indexes data from both of those chains.

ENSIndexer implements the core subgraph indexing logic within **shared handler functions** that mirror their subgraph counterpart. These shared handlers functions are in `apps/ensindexer/src/handlers/*.ts`. The `subgraph` plugin then implements subgraph-compatible logic 1:1, primarily relying on the shared handlers, and its implementation can be found in `apps/ensindexer/src/plugins/eth/ponder.plugin.ts`.

Each plugin is an isolated ponder indexing configuration that uses the shared handlers (plus any necessary plugin-specific logic) to index its respective subregistry. See `apps/ensindexer/src/plugins/base/ponder.plugin.ts` and `apps/ensindexer/src/plugins/linea/ponder.plugin.ts` for examples.

### Plugin-Scoping

Because plugins indexing subregistries use the shared handlers and may clobber entities created by the `subgraph` plugin—which didn't expect multichain or multi-source entities—, id-generating code is abstracted to be plugin-specific. See the helpers in `apps/ensindexer/src/lib/ids.ts`. In these cases, for the `subgraph` plugin, the original behavior is left un-modified to facilitate 1:1 responses from the subgraph-compatible api.

This scoping also applies to the concept of a `RegistrarManagedName` (see `apps/ensindexer/src/lib/types.ts` and `makeRegistrarHandlers` in `apps/ensindexer/src/handlers/Registrar.ts`) — the shared handlers derived from the subgraph which are  used by some plugins expect the context of a name whos subnames they manage. In the original subgraph implementation, this was hardcoded as the `.eth` name, and operations under the `Registrar` are in the context of direct subnames of `.eth`.

### Ponder Plugin Integration

#### Contract Namespace

Ponder, by default, does not have the concept of plugins — it assumes that a config is static and that all contract names are known at compile-time. In ENSIndexer, multiple plugins reference contracts of the same name, and further namespacing is required. We namespace each contract by the Registry's `Subname` to avoid collisions (see `apps/ensindexer/src/lib/plugin-helpers.ts` for reference).

#### Contract & Event Typing

Ponder uses the type information of contracts and their abis in the provided config to power the `ponder.on('MyContract:MyEvent', ...)` api, including inferred types for contract names, event names, and event arguments.

In order to replicate this experience with plugins selected at runtime, we use some creative typing in `apps/ensindexer/ponder.config.ts` to merge the possible plugin types for Ponder. With this approach we have full type inference for contract and event names/args across the app regardless of which plugins are activated at runtime.

#### Plugin Execution

When ENSIndexer is run, the configs for all of the active plugins (those selected by the user) are merged and ponder runs in `omnichain` (soon: `multichain`) mode to produce the resulting index.

## Available Plugins

- [Subgraph Plugin](/technical-reference/plugins/subgraph)
- [Base Names Plugin](/technical-reference/plugins/base-names)
- [Linea Names Plugin](/technical-reference/plugins/linea-names)
- [3DNS Plugin](/technical-reference/plugins/3dns)


## Configuring plugins

Plugins can be configured via the `AVAILABLE_PLUGINS` environment variable. This is a comma separated list of plugin names. For example:

```bash
AVAILABLE_PLUGINS=subgraph,basenames,lineanames,threedns
```

will activate all plugins

## TODO

- Anatomy of a plugin (so handlers have namespaced handlers, relationship between data sources etc)
- Maybe some dev docs around writing handlers. This was the questions i had and still kind of have around handlers in development and maybe this should wait until i do the handler story i was going to pick up.

Commit message:

docs: clean up docs, fix links etc

docs/ensnode.io/src/content/docs/ensindexer/technical-reference/plugin-system.mdx, after:

---
title: Plugin System
description: Documentation of ENSNode's plugin architecture
sidebar:
  label: Plugin System
  order: 3
---

ENSNode uses a plugin-based architecture to support different data sources. It also makes ENSNode extensible by allowing new plugins to be added over time and each plugin is compartmentalized so that it can be developed, tested and deployed independently. When you run ENSNode, you can choose which plugins to activate so your instance doesn't have to index data which you don't need.

As the ENS ecosystem grows, so will the number of plugins available. ENS as a protocol is not the only useful data source. For example, many people trade ENS names on secondary markets and there is potential to index this data in ENSNode.

This architecture allows ENSNode to be extended to support new data sources with minimal modifications to the core codebase.

### Data Sources and Deployments

Before understanding how plugins work, it's important to understand the concept of a data source. A data source is a source of data that can be indexed. It can be a blockchain, off-chain API or any other source of data. Currently all plugins use blockchains as their data source but this is likely to change in the future.

A deployment is a collection of data sources. For example, the mainnet deployment includes all data sources. The `holesky` deployment only includes the `Root` data source which are the ENS contracts on `holesky`.

If you haven't read over the [core concepts](/ensindexer/technical-reference/core-concepts) yet, it is recommend doing so to get a better understanding of deployments and data sources.

### Plugin Definition

An ENSIndexer plugin is defined by its Ponder config (network & contracts & abis & such) and the ponder handler registration code that it executes at runtime (via the `activate` function). A plugin has a relationship between at least one data source. For example, the threedns plugin has a relationship with 2 data sources: `ThreeDNSOptimism` and `ThreeDNSBase` and it indexes data from both of those chains.

ENSIndexer implements the core subgraph indexing logic within **shared handler functions** that mirror their subgraph counterpart. These shared handlers functions are in `apps/ensindexer/src/handlers/*.ts`. The `subgraph` plugin then implements subgraph-compatible logic 1:1, primarily relying on the shared handlers, and its implementation can be found in `apps/ensindexer/src/plugins/eth/ponder.plugin.ts`.

Each plugin is an isolated ponder indexing configuration that uses the shared handlers (plus any necessary plugin-specific logic) to index its respective subregistry. See `apps/ensindexer/src/plugins/base/ponder.plugin.ts` and `apps/ensindexer/src/plugins/linea/ponder.plugin.ts` for examples.

### Plugin-Scoping

Because plugins indexing subregistries use the shared handlers and may clobber entities created by the `subgraph` plugin—which didn't expect multichain or multi-source entities—, id-generating code is abstracted to be plugin-specific. See the helpers in `apps/ensindexer/src/lib/ids.ts`. In these cases, for the `subgraph` plugin, the original behavior is left un-modified to facilitate 1:1 responses from the subgraph-compatible api.

This scoping also applies to the concept of a `RegistrarManagedName` (see `apps/ensindexer/src/lib/types.ts` and `makeRegistrarHandlers` in `apps/ensindexer/src/handlers/Registrar.ts`) — the shared handlers derived from the subgraph which are  used by some plugins expect the context of a name whos subnames they manage. In the original subgraph implementation, this was hardcoded as the `.eth` name, and operations under the `Registrar` are in the context of direct subnames of `.eth`.

### Ponder Plugin Integration

#### Contract Namespace

Ponder, by default, does not have the concept of plugins — it assumes that a config is static and that all contract names are known at compile-time. In ENSIndexer, multiple plugins reference contracts of the same name, and further namespacing is required. We namespace each contract by the Registry's `Subname` to avoid collisions (see `apps/ensindexer/src/lib/plugin-helpers.ts` for reference).

#### Contract & Event Typing

Ponder uses the type information of contracts and their abis in the provided config to power the `ponder.on('MyContract:MyEvent', ...)` api, including inferred types for contract names, event names, and event arguments.

In order to replicate this experience with plugins selected at runtime, we use some creative typing in `apps/ensindexer/ponder.config.ts` to merge the possible plugin types for Ponder. With this approach we have full type inference for contract and event names/args across the app regardless of which plugins are activated at runtime.

#### Plugin Execution

When ENSIndexer is run, the configs for all of the active plugins (those selected by the user) are merged and ponder runs in `omnichain` (soon: `multichain`) mode to produce the resulting index.

## Available Plugins

- [Subgraph Plugin](plugins/subgraph)
- [Base Names Plugin](plugins/base-names)
- [Linea Names Plugin](plugins/linea-names)
- [ThreeDNS Plugin](plugins/three-dns)


## Configuring plugins

Plugins can be configured via the `AVAILABLE_PLUGINS` environment variable. This is a comma separated list of plugin names. For example:

```bash
AVAILABLE_PLUGINS=subgraph,basenames,lineanames,threedns
```

will activate all plugins
