docs/ensnode.io/src/content/docs/docs/concepts/what-is-ensnode.mdx, before:

---
title: Understanding ENSNode V1
sidebar:
  order: 2
---

import { LinkCard } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

:::note
This document assumes general knowledge of the ENS protocol and the ENS Subgraph.
:::

### What is ENSNode

ENSNode is the new multichain indexer for ENS and ENSv2. It is built on [Ponder](https://ponder.sh/) and provides enhanced capabilities over the ENS Subgraph, as well as being more efficient, flexible, and maintainable. ENSNode's enhanced capabilities include multichain and multiregistrar indexing while maintaining backwards compatibility with existing ENS Subgraph APIs.

### ENSNode Version 1

ENSNode version 1 (`V1`), discussed here, prioritizes equivalency with the [ENS Subgraph](/ensnode/understanding/the-ens-subgraph/), which drove many architectural decisions.

<LinkCard
  title="ENSNode Roadmap"
  description="Learn about ENSNode's future roadmap."
  href="/ensnode/concepts/roadmap/"
/>

## Core Design Principles

1. **Full Backwards Compatibility w/ ENS Subgraph**

   - Full support for existing ENS Subgraph queries used by [`ensjs`](https://github.com/ensdomains/ensjs/) and [`ens-app-v3`](https://github.com/ensdomains/ens-app-v3)
   - Drop-in replacement for applications using the ENS Subgraph
   - Verified compatibility through extensive testing with [`ens-test-env`](https://github.com/namehash/ens-test-env/) and [ens-subgraph-transition-tools](https://github.com/namehash/ens-subgraph-transition-tools) (see [Subgraph Compatibility](/reference/subgraph-compatibility))

2. **Multi-Registry Plugin Architecture**

   - Support for indexing ENS data across multiple chains & subregistries (i.e. mainnet, Base, Linea)
   - Plugins can be activated independently or in combination

3. **Built on Ponder**

   - Improved indexing speed (>10x faster than ENS Subgraph)
   - Isolated indexing schemas (supporting branches, staging environments)
   - Access your indexed data directly from Postgres
   - `@ponder/client` for efficent client-side live queries

4. **Self-hostable Decentralization Approach**
   - Self-hostable infrastructure
   - Bring-your-own Postgres
   - Bring-your-own ENSRainbow

## Plugins

ENSIndexer implements the core subgraph indexing logic within **shared handler functions** that mirror their subgraph counterpart. These shared handlers functions are in `apps/ensindexer/src/handlers/*.ts`. The `eth` plugin then implements subgraph-compatible logic 1:1, primarily relying on the shared handlers, and its implementation can be found in `apps/ensindexer/src/plugins/eth/ponder.plugin.ts`.

Each plugin is an isolated ponder indexing configuration that uses the shared handlers (plus any necessary plugin-specific logic) to index its respective subregistry. See `apps/ensindexer/src/plugins/base/ponder.plugin.ts` and `apps/ensindexer/src/plugins/linea/ponder.plugin.ts` for examples.

### Plugin-Scoping

Because plugins indexing subregistries use the shared handlers and may clobber entities created by the `eth` plugin—which didn't expect multichain or multi-source entities—, id-generating code is abstracted to be plugin-specific. See the helpers in `apps/ensindexer/src/lib/ids.ts`. In these cases, for the `eth` plugin, the original behavior is left un-modified to facilitate 1:1 responses from the subgraph-compatible api.

This scoping also applies to the concept of a `RegistrarManagedName` (see `apps/ensindexer/src/lib/types.ts` and `makeRegistrarHandlers` in `apps/ensindexer/src/handlers/Registrar.ts`) — teh shared handlers derived from the subgraph which are  used by some plugins expect the context of a name whos subnames they manage. In the original subgraph implementation, this was hardcoded as the `.eth` name, and operations under the `Registrar` are in the context of direct subnames of `.eth`.

### Plugin Definition

An ENSIndexer plugin is defined by its Ponder config (network & contracts & abis & such) and the ponder handler registration code that it executes at runtime (via the `activate` function).

### Ponder Plugin Integration

#### Contract Namespace

Ponder, by default, does not have the concept of plugins — it assumes that a config is static and that all contract names are known at compile-time. In ENSIndexer, multiple plugins reference contracts of the same name, and further namespacing is required. We namespace each contract by the Registry's `Subname` to avoid collisions (see `apps/ensindexer/src/lib/plugin-helpers.ts` for reference).

#### Contract & Event Typing

Ponder uses the type information of contracts and their abis in the provided config to power the `ponder.on('MyContract:MyEvent', ...)` api, including inferred types for contract names, event names, and event arguments.

In order to replicate this experience with plugins selected at runtime, we use some creative typing in `apps/ensindexer/ponder.config.ts` to merge the possible plugin types for Ponder. With this approach we have full type inference for contract and event names/args across the app regardless of which plugins are activated at runtime.

#### Plugin Execution

When ENSIndexer is run, the configs for all of the active plugins (those selected by the user) are merged and ponder runs in `omnichain` (soon: `multichain`) mode to produce the resulting index.

## @namehash/ens-deployments

This package provides configurations for each known "ENS deployment". An ENS deployment represents a single, unified namespace of ENS names with a distinct onchain root Registry and the capability to span across multiple chains, subregistries, and offchain resources.

Each deployment is independent - for instance, the Sepolia and Holesky testnet deployments are separate from the canonical mainnet deployment. This package centralizes the contract addresses, start blocks, and other configuration needed to interact with each deployment.

ENSIndexer uses `@namehash/ens-deployments` to configure its plugins and determine which are available for a given target deployment.

See the [`@namehash/ens-deployments` README](https://github.com/namehash/ensnode/blob/main/packages/ens-deployments/README.md) for more context on this package & its responsibilities.

## General Execution Flow

The subgraph's codebase is not exhaustively documented or trivially readable. In some cases we've decided to simplify the implementation (ensuring accuracy via [ens-subgraph-transition-tools](https://github.com/namehash/ens-subgraph-transition-tools)) and in others we've elected to match the subgraph's logic closer to 1:1.

In general, however, each handler is written in a more ponder-native way, using ponder's drizzle-inspired entity CRUD apis, rather than the subgraph's active-record-inspired api. It uses minimial branched or nested logic, resulting in code that is much more readable. Along the way we've also documented the purpose of these handlers more exhaustively, which should promote understanding and readability.

## API Layer

ENSIndexer exposes three distinct API endpoints:

1. **Subgraph-Compatible GraphQL** (`/subgraph`)

   - Implements the ENS Subgraph schema and query patterns
   - Enables gradual migration from existing Subgraph implementations
   - Maintains compatibility with `ensjs` client library — just replace

2. **Native Ponder GraphQL** (`/ponder`)

   - Auto-generated GraphQL API from Ponder schema
   - More efficient query patterns than Subgraph API, particularly for pagination

3. **Ponder Client API** (`/sql/*`)
   - SQL-based alternative to GraphQL
   - End-to-end type inference
   - Support for live updates
   - Optimized for client application integration

## Label Healing with ENSRainbow

ENSIndexer depends on ENSRainbow at runtime to handle the healing of unknown labels. This parallels the ENS Subgraph's reliance on the graph-node's `ens.nameByHash` function.

## Additional Notes in Comments

Additional implementation & background context for certain decisions are included throughout the codebase where relevant, and we encourage curious readers to browse the comments and general structure of the shared handlers & helper libs for further background.

Commit message:

docs: change the ensnode description to cover the 3 components

docs/ensnode.io/src/content/docs/docs/concepts/what-is-ensnode.mdx, after:

---
title: Understanding ENSNode V1
sidebar:
  order: 2
---

import { LinkCard } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

:::note
This document assumes general knowledge of the ENS protocol and the ENS Subgraph.
:::

### What is ENSNode

ENSNode is a group of applications that work together to provide an easy way to access data for ENS and in future ENSv2. The main function is 'indexing' across multiple blockchains. In simple terms, this means it collects, processes, and organizes all the information related to ENS names (like who owns a name, what it resolves to, and other settings) from various blockchain networks. This makes the complex world of ENS data much simpler to search and use for developers and their applications.

It is comprised of three main components:

- ENSIndexer is the a multichain indexer for ENS and ENSv2. It is built on [Ponder](https://ponder.sh/) and provides enhanced capabilities over the ENS Subgraph, as well as being more efficient, flexible, and maintainable. ENSNode's enhanced capabilities include multichain and multiregistrar indexing while maintaining backwards compatibility with existing ENS Subgraph APIs.
- ENSRainbow is a labelhash resolver that resolves ENS and ENSv2 names off-chain.
- ENSAdmin is a web interface that allows you to manage and monitor hosted ENSNode instances.

If you are a developer looking to access ENS data with ENSNode from the hosted API you will be using the API in ENSIndexer of which there is a hosted instance. We recommend starting with the [ENSNode Quickstart](/ensnode/quickstart/).

### ENSNode Version 1

ENSNode version 1 (`V1`), discussed here, prioritizes equivalency with the [ENS Subgraph](/ensnode/understanding/the-ens-subgraph/), which drove many architectural decisions.

<LinkCard
  title="ENSNode Roadmap"
  description="Learn about ENSNode's future roadmap."
  href="/ensnode/concepts/roadmap/"
/>

## Core Design Principles

1. **Full Backwards Compatibility w/ ENS Subgraph**

   - Full support for existing ENS Subgraph queries used by [`ensjs`](https://github.com/ensdomains/ensjs/) and [`ens-app-v3`](https://github.com/ensdomains/ens-app-v3)
   - Drop-in replacement for applications using the ENS Subgraph
   - Verified compatibility through extensive testing with [`ens-test-env`](https://github.com/namehash/ens-test-env/) and [ens-subgraph-transition-tools](https://github.com/namehash/ens-subgraph-transition-tools) (see [Subgraph Compatibility](/reference/subgraph-compatibility))

2. **Multi-Registry Plugin Architecture**

   - Support for indexing ENS data across multiple chains & subregistries (i.e. mainnet, Base, Linea)
   - Plugins can be activated independently or in combination

3. **Built on Ponder**

   - Improved indexing speed (>10x faster than ENS Subgraph)
   - Isolated indexing schemas (supporting branches, staging environments)
   - Access your indexed data directly from Postgres
   - `@ponder/client` for efficent client-side live queries

4. **Self-hostable Decentralization Approach**
   - Self-hostable infrastructure
   - Bring-your-own Postgres
   - Bring-your-own ENSRainbow

## Plugins

ENSIndexer implements the core subgraph indexing logic within **shared handler functions** that mirror their subgraph counterpart. These shared handlers functions are in `apps/ensindexer/src/handlers/*.ts`. The `eth` plugin then implements subgraph-compatible logic 1:1, primarily relying on the shared handlers, and its implementation can be found in `apps/ensindexer/src/plugins/eth/ponder.plugin.ts`.

Each plugin is an isolated ponder indexing configuration that uses the shared handlers (plus any necessary plugin-specific logic) to index its respective subregistry. See `apps/ensindexer/src/plugins/base/ponder.plugin.ts` and `apps/ensindexer/src/plugins/linea/ponder.plugin.ts` for examples.

### Plugin-Scoping

Because plugins indexing subregistries use the shared handlers and may clobber entities created by the `eth` plugin—which didn't expect multichain or multi-source entities—, id-generating code is abstracted to be plugin-specific. See the helpers in `apps/ensindexer/src/lib/ids.ts`. In these cases, for the `eth` plugin, the original behavior is left un-modified to facilitate 1:1 responses from the subgraph-compatible api.

This scoping also applies to the concept of a `RegistrarManagedName` (see `apps/ensindexer/src/lib/types.ts` and `makeRegistrarHandlers` in `apps/ensindexer/src/handlers/Registrar.ts`) — teh shared handlers derived from the subgraph which are  used by some plugins expect the context of a name whos subnames they manage. In the original subgraph implementation, this was hardcoded as the `.eth` name, and operations under the `Registrar` are in the context of direct subnames of `.eth`.

### Plugin Definition

An ENSIndexer plugin is defined by its Ponder config (network & contracts & abis & such) and the ponder handler registration code that it executes at runtime (via the `activate` function).

### Ponder Plugin Integration

#### Contract Namespace

Ponder, by default, does not have the concept of plugins — it assumes that a config is static and that all contract names are known at compile-time. In ENSIndexer, multiple plugins reference contracts of the same name, and further namespacing is required. We namespace each contract by the Registry's `Subname` to avoid collisions (see `apps/ensindexer/src/lib/plugin-helpers.ts` for reference).

#### Contract & Event Typing

Ponder uses the type information of contracts and their abis in the provided config to power the `ponder.on('MyContract:MyEvent', ...)` api, including inferred types for contract names, event names, and event arguments.

In order to replicate this experience with plugins selected at runtime, we use some creative typing in `apps/ensindexer/ponder.config.ts` to merge the possible plugin types for Ponder. With this approach we have full type inference for contract and event names/args across the app regardless of which plugins are activated at runtime.

#### Plugin Execution

When ENSIndexer is run, the configs for all of the active plugins (those selected by the user) are merged and ponder runs in `omnichain` (soon: `multichain`) mode to produce the resulting index.

## @namehash/ens-deployments

This package provides configurations for each known "ENS deployment". An ENS deployment represents a single, unified namespace of ENS names with a distinct onchain root Registry and the capability to span across multiple chains, subregistries, and offchain resources.

Each deployment is independent - for instance, the Sepolia and Holesky testnet deployments are separate from the canonical mainnet deployment. This package centralizes the contract addresses, start blocks, and other configuration needed to interact with each deployment.

ENSIndexer uses `@namehash/ens-deployments` to configure its plugins and determine which are available for a given target deployment.

See the [`@namehash/ens-deployments` README](https://github.com/namehash/ensnode/blob/main/packages/ens-deployments/README.md) for more context on this package & its responsibilities.

## General Execution Flow

The subgraph's codebase is not exhaustively documented or trivially readable. In some cases we've decided to simplify the implementation (ensuring accuracy via [ens-subgraph-transition-tools](https://github.com/namehash/ens-subgraph-transition-tools)) and in others we've elected to match the subgraph's logic closer to 1:1.

In general, however, each handler is written in a more ponder-native way, using ponder's drizzle-inspired entity CRUD apis, rather than the subgraph's active-record-inspired api. It uses minimial branched or nested logic, resulting in code that is much more readable. Along the way we've also documented the purpose of these handlers more exhaustively, which should promote understanding and readability.

## API Layer

ENSIndexer exposes three distinct API endpoints:

1. **Subgraph-Compatible GraphQL** (`/subgraph`)

   - Implements the ENS Subgraph schema and query patterns
   - Enables gradual migration from existing Subgraph implementations
   - Maintains compatibility with `ensjs` client library — just replace

2. **Native Ponder GraphQL** (`/ponder`)

   - Auto-generated GraphQL API from Ponder schema
   - More efficient query patterns than Subgraph API, particularly for pagination

3. **Ponder Client API** (`/sql/*`)
   - SQL-based alternative to GraphQL
   - End-to-end type inference
   - Support for live updates
   - Optimized for client application integration

## Label Healing with ENSRainbow

ENSIndexer depends on ENSRainbow at runtime to handle the healing of unknown labels. This parallels the ENS Subgraph's reliance on the graph-node's `ens.nameByHash` function.

## Additional Notes in Comments

Additional implementation & background context for certain decisions are included throughout the codebase where relevant, and we encourage curious readers to browse the comments and general structure of the shared handlers & helper libs for further background.
