docs/GRAPHQL.md, before:

# graphql info/spec

## goals

1. ponder indexer 1:1 equivalency of results as compared to subgraph
  1. support for the ~10 well-defined graphql queries sourced from ensjs, ens-app-v3
  2. support for exhaustive collection queries to support snapshot equivalency tool
2. indexer snapshot equivalency via comprehensive graphql diffs
3. proxy equivalency tool
4. 100% ensjs, ens-app-v3 test suites passing via proxy equivalency tool

## ponder indexer

the ponder indexer will implement a custom graphql server and support the queries mentioned above.

initially it should implement the collection queries necessary to support `snapshot-eq`

notable work includes matching the subgraph's schema, pagination scheme, and complex filter support.
we can likely use [ponder's autogenerated graphql api](https://github.com/ponder-sh/ponder/blob/main/packages/core/src/graphql/index.ts) as a starting point—along with [`drizzle-graphql`'s](https://github.com/drizzle-team/drizzle-graphql/blob/main/src/util/builders/pg.ts#L390)— _perhaps_ shoving them into an LLM to generate logic that more closely matches thegraph's generated schema. it may or may not be easier to remove the table-level metaprogramming because our top-level query fields are well-known, TBD. we'll also want to use dataloader exactly as ponder does.

we will implement [a hono middleware much like ponder's](https://github.com/ponder-sh/ponder/blob/0a5645ca8dec327b0c21da432ee00810edeb087c/packages/core/src/graphql/middleware.ts#L23) using graphql-yoga to execute the generated schema


## well-known queries

### from ensjs

- [`getDecodedName`](https://github.com/ensdomains/ensjs/blob/main/packages/ensjs/src/functions/subgraph/getDecodedName.ts) — Gets the full name for a name with unknown labels from the subgraph
  - basically: attempts to heal any encoded labels in a provided name using the subgraph
  - if name is fully decoded, return
  - split name into `n` labels
  - for all encoded labels (`[label]`), find all domains by `id`
    - hilariously this queries subgraph with `n` `domains(first: 1, where: { id: $label })` queries
  - also queries `domain(id: namehash(name))` but i'm not sure why, as it effectively duplicates the above label queries
  - in our ideal indexer, this query is replaced with a single `domain(id: namehash(name))` because the api would handle the full extent of the healing logic
- [`getNameHistory`](https://github.com/ensdomains/ensjs/blob/main/packages/ensjs/src/functions/subgraph/getNameHistory.ts)
  - basically just all the events associated with a name
- [`getNamesForAddress`](https://github.com/ensdomains/ensjs/blob/main/packages/ensjs/src/functions/subgraph/getNamesForAddress.ts)
  - gets all names related to an address via address=registrant,address=owner,address=wrappedOwner,address=resolvedAddress
  - supports `searchString`
  - supports filter by (current) expiry, by reverse records, by 'empty' domains
  - supports order by expiry date, name, labelName, createdAt
  - [expiryDate order by](https://github.com/ensdomains/ensjs/blob/main/packages/ensjs/src/functions/subgraph/filters.ts#L707) is an absolutely insane construction
  - supports pagination by constructing additional where clauses to exclude previous results
- [`getSubgraphRecords`](https://github.com/ensdomains/ensjs/blob/main/packages/ensjs/src/functions/subgraph/getSubgraphRecords.ts) — Gets the records for a name from the subgraph
  - pretty straightforward, allows querying by specific resolver id
- [`getSubgraphRegistrant`](https://github.com/ensdomains/ensjs/blob/main/packages/ensjs/src/functions/subgraph/getSubgraphRegistrant.ts) — Gets the name registrant from the subgraph.
  - only supports eth 2ld
- [`getSubnames`](https://github.com/ensdomains/ensjs/blob/main/packages/ensjs/src/functions/subgraph/getSubnames.ts) — Gets the subnames for a name
  - supports `searchString`
  - supports filter by (current) expiry, by 'empty' domains
  - supports order by expiry date, name, labelName, createdAt
  - supports pagination by constructing additional where clauses to exclude previous results

### from ens-app-v3

- [`useResolverExists`](https://github.com/ensdomains/ens-app-v3/blob/328692ae832618f8143916c143b7e4cb9e520811/src/hooks/useResolverExists.ts#L27) — straightforward resolver existence check
- [`useRegistrationData`](https://github.com/ensdomains/ens-app-v3/blob/328692ae832618f8143916c143b7e4cb9e520811/src/hooks/useRegistrationData.ts#L31) — registration by id and nameRegistered events

Commit message:

docs: document which api features are explicitly not supported

docs/GRAPHQL.md, after:

# graphql info/spec

## backwards-compatibility notes

the following features of the subgraph graphql api are explicitly unsupported, because they are not used by ensjs or ens-app-v3

- `_nocase` case-insensitive where filters
- [fulltext search queries](https://thegraph.com/docs/en/subgraphs/querying/graphql-api/#fulltext-search-queries)
- 1-level-nested Entity `_orderBy` param
- subgraph `_Meta_` object (ponder's `_meta` is available)

## goals

1. ponder indexer 1:1 equivalency of results as compared to subgraph
  1. support for the ~10 well-defined graphql queries sourced from ensjs, ens-app-v3
  2. support for exhaustive collection queries to support snapshot equivalency tool
2. indexer snapshot equivalency via comprehensive graphql diffs
3. proxy equivalency tool
4. 100% ensjs, ens-app-v3 test suites passing via proxy equivalency tool

## ponder indexer

the ponder indexer will implement a custom graphql server and support the queries mentioned above.

initially it should implement the collection queries necessary to support `snapshot-eq`

notable work includes matching the subgraph's schema, pagination scheme, and complex filter support.
we can likely use [ponder's autogenerated graphql api](https://github.com/ponder-sh/ponder/blob/main/packages/core/src/graphql/index.ts) as a starting point—along with [`drizzle-graphql`'s](https://github.com/drizzle-team/drizzle-graphql/blob/main/src/util/builders/pg.ts#L390)— _perhaps_ shoving them into an LLM to generate logic that more closely matches thegraph's generated schema. it may or may not be easier to remove the table-level metaprogramming because our top-level query fields are well-known, TBD. we'll also want to use dataloader exactly as ponder does.

we will implement [a hono middleware much like ponder's](https://github.com/ponder-sh/ponder/blob/0a5645ca8dec327b0c21da432ee00810edeb087c/packages/core/src/graphql/middleware.ts#L23) using graphql-yoga to execute the generated schema


## well-known queries

### from ensjs

- [`getDecodedName`](https://github.com/ensdomains/ensjs/blob/main/packages/ensjs/src/functions/subgraph/getDecodedName.ts) — Gets the full name for a name with unknown labels from the subgraph
  - basically: attempts to heal any encoded labels in a provided name using the subgraph
  - if name is fully decoded, return
  - split name into `n` labels
  - for all encoded labels (`[label]`), find all domains by `id`
    - hilariously this queries subgraph with `n` `domains(first: 1, where: { id: $label })` queries
  - also queries `domain(id: namehash(name))` but i'm not sure why, as it effectively duplicates the above label queries
  - in our ideal indexer, this query is replaced with a single `domain(id: namehash(name))` because the api would handle the full extent of the healing logic
- [`getNameHistory`](https://github.com/ensdomains/ensjs/blob/main/packages/ensjs/src/functions/subgraph/getNameHistory.ts)
  - basically just all the events associated with a name
- [`getNamesForAddress`](https://github.com/ensdomains/ensjs/blob/main/packages/ensjs/src/functions/subgraph/getNamesForAddress.ts)
  - gets all names related to an address via address=registrant,address=owner,address=wrappedOwner,address=resolvedAddress
  - supports `searchString`
  - supports filter by (current) expiry, by reverse records, by 'empty' domains
  - supports order by expiry date, name, labelName, createdAt
  - [expiryDate order by](https://github.com/ensdomains/ensjs/blob/main/packages/ensjs/src/functions/subgraph/filters.ts#L707) is an absolutely insane construction
  - supports pagination by constructing additional where clauses to exclude previous results
- [`getSubgraphRecords`](https://github.com/ensdomains/ensjs/blob/main/packages/ensjs/src/functions/subgraph/getSubgraphRecords.ts) — Gets the records for a name from the subgraph
  - pretty straightforward, allows querying by specific resolver id
- [`getSubgraphRegistrant`](https://github.com/ensdomains/ensjs/blob/main/packages/ensjs/src/functions/subgraph/getSubgraphRegistrant.ts) — Gets the name registrant from the subgraph.
  - only supports eth 2ld
- [`getSubnames`](https://github.com/ensdomains/ensjs/blob/main/packages/ensjs/src/functions/subgraph/getSubnames.ts) — Gets the subnames for a name
  - supports `searchString`
  - supports filter by (current) expiry, by 'empty' domains
  - supports order by expiry date, name, labelName, createdAt
  - supports pagination by constructing additional where clauses to exclude previous results

### from ens-app-v3

- [`useResolverExists`](https://github.com/ensdomains/ens-app-v3/blob/328692ae832618f8143916c143b7e4cb9e520811/src/hooks/useResolverExists.ts#L27) — straightforward resolver existence check
- [`useRegistrationData`](https://github.com/ensdomains/ens-app-v3/blob/328692ae832618f8143916c143b7e4cb9e520811/src/hooks/useRegistrationData.ts#L31) — registration by id and nameRegistered events
